House Republicans Unveil Plan to Replace Health Law


WASHINGTON — House Republicans unveiled on Monday their long-awaited plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, scrapping the mandate for most Americans to have health insurance in favor of a new system of tax credits to induce people to buy insurance on the open market.

The bill sets the stage for a bitter debate over the possible dismantling of the most significant health care law in a half-century. In its place would be a health law that would be far more oriented to the free market and would make far-reaching changes to a vast part of the American economy.

The House Republican bill would roll back the expansion of Medicaid that has provided coverage to more than 10 million people in 31 states, reducing federal payments for many new beneficiaries. It also would effectively scrap the unpopular requirement that people have insurance and eliminate tax penalties for those who go without. The requirement for larger employers to offer coverage to their full-time employees would also be eliminated.

People who let their insurance coverage lapse, however, would face a significant penalty. Insurers could increase their premiums by 30 percent, and in that sense, Republicans would replace a penalty for not having insurance with a new penalty for allowing insurance to lapse.

House Republican leaders said they would keep three popular provisions in the Affordable Care Act: the prohibition on denying coverage to people with pre-existing conditions, the ban on lifetime coverage caps and the rule allowing young people to remain on their parents’ health plans until age 26.

Republicans hope to undo other major parts of President Barack Obama’s signature domestic achievement, including income-based tax credits that help millions of Americans buy insurance, taxes on people with high incomes and the penalty for people who do not have health coverage.

Medicaid recipients’ open-ended entitlement to health care would be replaced by a per-person allotment to the states. And people with pre-existing medical conditions would face new uncertainties in a more deregulated insurance market.

The bill would also cut off federal funds to Planned Parenthood clinics through Medicaid and other government programs for one year.

“Obamacare is a sinking ship, and the legislation introduced today will rescue people from the mistakes of the past,” said Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the majority leader.

Democrats denounced the effort as a cruel attempt to strip Americans of their health care.

“Republicans will force tens of millions of families to pay more for worse coverage — and push millions of Americans off of health coverage entirely,” said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader.

Two House committees — Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce — plan to take up the legislation on Wednesday. House Republicans hope the committees will approve the measure this week, clearing the way for the full House to act on it before a spring break scheduled to begin on April 7. The outlook in the Senate is less clear. Democrats want to preserve the Affordable Care Act, and a handful of Republican senators expressed serious concerns about the House plan as it was being developed.

Under the House Republican plan, the income-based tax credits provided under the Affordable Care Act would be replaced with credits that would rise with age as older people generally require more health care. In a late change, the plan reduces the tax credits for individuals with annual incomes over $75,000 and married couples with incomes over $150,000.

Republicans did not offer any estimate of how much their plan would cost, or how many people would gain or lose insurance. The two House committees plan to vote on the legislation without having estimates of its cost from the Congressional Budget Office, the official scorekeeper on Capitol Hill.

But they did get the support from President Trump that they badly need to win House passage.

“Obamacare has proven to be a disaster with fewer options, inferior care and skyrocketing costs that are crushing small business and families across America,” said the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer. “Today marks an important step toward restoring health care choices and affordability back to the American people.”

The release of the legislation is a step toward fulfilling a campaign pledge — repeal and replace — that has animated Republicans since the Affordable Care Act passed in 2010. But it is far from certain Republican lawmakers will be able to get on the same page and repeal the health measure.

On Monday, four Republican senators — Rob Portman of Ohio, Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, Cory Gardner of Colorado and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — signed a letter saying a House draft that they had reviewed did not adequately protect people in states like theirs that have expanded Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act.

Three conservative Republicans in the Senate — Mike Lee of Utah, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Ted Cruz of Texas — had already expressed reservations about the House’s approach.

In the House, Republican leaders will have to contend with conservative members who have already been vocal about their misgivings about the legislation being drawn up. “Obamacare 2.0,” Representative Justin Amash, Republican of Michigan, posted on Twitter on Monday.

Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, also offered a warning on Monday, joining with Mr. Paul to urge that Republican leaders pursue a “clean repeal” of the health care law.

“Conservatives don’t want new taxes, new entitlements and an ‘ObamaCare Lite’ bill,” they wrote on the website of Fox News. “If leadership insists on replacing ObamaCare with ObamaCare-lite, no repeal will pass.”

The move to strip Planned Parenthood of funding and the plan’s provisions to reverse tax increases on the high-income taxpayers will also expose Republicans in more moderate districts to Democratic attacks.

The bill would provide each state with a fixed allotment of federal money for each person on Medicaid, the federal-state program for more than 70 million low-income people. The federal government would pay different amounts for different categories of beneficiaries, including children, older Americans and people with disabilities.

The bill would also repeal subsidies that the government provides under the Affordable Care Act to help low-income people pay deductibles and other out-of-pocket costs for insurance purchased through the public marketplaces. Eliminating these subsidies would cause turmoil in insurance markets, insurers and consumer advocates say.

However, the House Republicans would provide states with $100 billion over nine years, which states could use to help people pay for health care and insurance.

The tax credits proposed by House Republicans would start at $2,000 a year for a person under 30 and would rise to a maximum of $4,000 for a person 60 or older. A family could receive up to $14,000 in credits.

Even with those credits, Democrats say, many people would find insurance unaffordable. But Republicans would allow insurers to sell a leaner, less expensive package of benefits and would allow people to use the tax credits for insurance policies covering only catastrophic costs.

While Republicans have argued over how to proceed, Mr. Trump has expressed only vague goals for how to repeal the Affordable Care Act and improve the nation’s health care system. On Capitol Hill, lawmakers and their aides are waiting to see whether he uses his platform, Twitter account and all, to press reluctant Republicans to get behind the House plan.

The new version of the House Republican bill makes several changes to earlier drafts of the legislation.

It drops a proposal to require employees with high-cost employer-sponsored health insurance to pay income and payroll taxes on some of the value of that coverage. In addition, it would delay a provision of the Affordable Care Act that imposed an excise tax on high-cost insurance plans provided by employers to workers.

Congress had already delayed this “Cadillac tax” — despised by employers and labor unions alike — by two years, to 2020. The new legislation would suspend the tax from 2020 through 2024.

House Republicans would offer tax credits to help people buy insurance if they did not have coverage available from an employer or a government program. Under earlier versions of the bill, the tax credits increased with a person’s age, but would not have been tied to income. Backbench Republicans said the government should not be providing financial assistance to people with high incomes.

Accordingly, under the new version of the bill, the tax credits would be reduced and eventually phased out.















New Travel Ban Garners Same Verdict in Middle East: A Slap at Muslims


CAIRO — Lighter, tighter and more carefully worded, the reworked travel ban announced by the Trump administration on Monday aims to pass legal muster in the United States while meeting its stated objective of combating Islamist terrorism.

But in the Middle East, where its effects will be most keenly felt, the executive order was seen as boiling down to the same thing: a Muslim ban.

In Iraq, where the initial ban had drawn the sharpest criticism, relieved officials welcomed President Trump’s decision to drop their country from the list of nations whose citizens will be barred from entering the United States for 90 days. That decision came after pressure from the State Department and the Pentagon — and as American troops are working closely with Iraqi soldiers in the battle for Mosul.

In a minor triumph, there were none of the earlier chaotic scenes of travelers and refugees being turned back at airports.

Yet in the other six countries still on Mr. Trump’s list, his decision to push ahead with the ban only stoked their sense of grievance and discrimination. Regional experts repeated earlier warnings that Mr. Trump’s order handed an easy propaganda victory to enemies and might ultimately weaken American security.

“The idea that this is a Muslim ban has been reinforced even further,” said Maha Yahya, the director of the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut. “Islamic State will use this ban to say: ‘I told you so. They only mean you harm. They only see you as the enemy.’”

The six countries left on the list are among the poorest, most chaotic or most politically isolated in the Middle East, so their inclusion carries ostensibly low costs for the Trump administration. Libya has multiple competing governments. Aid officials warn that Yemen, consumed by civil war, is on the verge of famine. Syria’s vicious six-year conflict has left vast urban landscapes in ruins. Somalia has been in a state of rolling chaos since 1991.

Iran does not suffer domestic upheaval, but decades of diplomatic hostility with the West have left it political isolated.

Trump administration officials point out that parts of the banned countries have become havens for Al Qaeda, the Islamic State and other groups, largely as a result of war and chronic instability. But by the same token, studies have shown that the citizens of those countries are more likely to be victims than perpetrators of violence, and have historically not posed a major risk to security in the United States.

According to the New America Foundation, all 13 jihadist terrorists who have killed people in the United States since Sept. 11, 2001, were American citizens or permanent residents. None had ties to the seven countries first singled out by Mr. Trump in January. A federal appeals court, rejecting that order, said his administration had produced “no evidence” linking citizens from the seven affected nations to terrorist acts in the United States.

Among citizens in the banned countries, the sense of injustice is compounded when they look at richer or more powerful neighbors, like Egypt or Saudi Arabia, whose citizens have carried out major attacks in the United States, yet which have escaped Mr. Trump’s censure because their governments are harder to push around.

“You know what they say: When the wife commits adultery, hit the maid,” said Abdel Bari Taher, a Yemeni political analyst speaking by telephone from the war-ravaged country’s capital, Sana. “They are punishing Yemen and others because they are the weak ones. Meanwhile, all the Gulf states that funded terrorism carry on as usual.”

Mr. Taher said he had little doubt Mr. Trump’s ban was driven by domestic political considerations. “He is going after us just to please his right-wing supporters at home,” he said. Nonetheless, he added, it stung.

In Iraq, the initial ban had been taken as a grievous insult from an ally it was supposed to be partnering with in the fight against the Islamic State. When the ban was announced in January, it prompted calls from some officials in Baghdad for Iraq to reciprocate with a ban on Americans entering Iraq, putting the American-backed prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, under political pressure to act.

The plight of military translators who had worked for the United States government and been promised resettlement in the United States provided a further focus for popular outrage.

Mr. Abadi, however, ultimately decided not to impose any restrictions on Americans and instead worked through back channels to have the ban overturned. On Monday, relieved officials said their approach had been vindicated.

“We were hoping for the decision to be reconsidered, and this is what has happened,” said Jasim al-Jaf, Iraq’s minister of migration, in a telephone interview.

Still, it was equally likely that pressure from the Pentagon, which feared damage to the Islamic State campaign, played a significant part in Mr. Trump’s decision.

In the revised executive order issued Monday, Mr. Trump dropped a provision to bar Syrian refugees from the United States indefinitely, but will still freeze all refugee admissions for 120 days.

David Miliband, a former British foreign secretary who leads the International Rescue Committee aid agency, denounced that decision as a “historic assault on refugee resettlement to the United States, and a really catastrophic cut at a time there are more refugees around the world than ever before,” The Associated Press reported.

Ms. Yahya, the analyst, said the refugee decision was part of the growing “moral and reputational toll” from Mr. Trump’s actions in the Middle East. Yet there was not much of an immediate outcry in many countries — possibly because, as elsewhere, citizens were becoming slowly used to a steady stream of far-reaching, yet often perishable, decisions from Mr. Trump’s White House.

Some have been tickled by American news media coverage of the simmering conflict between Mr. Trump and the “deep state” — a phrase more commonly associated with discussions about the Egyptian security services, or Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence spy agency. Yet Mr. Trump’s assault on the news media as an “enemy of the people” has uncomfortable echoes in many countries, and some have taken the parallels to signify that the United States has entered an unwelcome phase.

“Trump has taken America from its ivory tower to the level of a rotten banana republic,” Mohamed Rageh Roweis, a Palestinian analyst, wrote on Twitter.

Even in unaffected countries, the ban has stoked the belief that the true goal of Mr. Trump and senior advisers like Stephen K. Bannon is to pursue a civilizational war against Muslims, rather than to combat terrorism.

“It doesn’t make any sense,” said Mustapha Kamel al-Sayyid, a political-science professor at Cairo University. “These terrorist groups are multinational organizations. If they want to attack the United States, they don’t have to send people from these six countries. They can just find someone from another country.”



Trump’s Wiretapping Claims Puncture Veneer of Presidential Civility


WASHINGTON — When last they saw each other six weeks ago after the ceremonial passing of power, President Trump and former President Barack Obama parted with smiles and handshakes. But it did not take long for the surface bonhomie to degenerate into a fierce and public clash unlike any other in modern times.

While Mr. Obama has remained quiet for the most part, some of his closest loyalists moved into opposition mode, leading what some only half-jokingly call “the resistance.” Mr. Trump, convinced that Obama holdovers still in government are trying to sabotage his presidency, took the conflict nuclear over the weekend by accusing his predecessor of bugging his telephones last year.

Mr. Trump provided no proof, and the charge was quickly dismissed by intelligence veterans and, indirectly, the F.B.I., but that did not make it any less sensational or any less historic. Never in recent generations has the natural friction between current and past presidents spilled over into such a public spectacle. If sustained, it could fray the institution of the presidency, further erode the public’s already low confidence in the nation’s leadership and leave both allies and enemies with the impression of an America at war with itself.

Perhaps it should be no surprise that it came to this between the 44th and 45th presidents. During last year’s campaign, Mr. Obama called Mr. Trump a “con artist and a know-nothing” who could not be trusted with the nuclear codes. Mr. Trump called Mr. Obama “the worst president in the history of the United States” after spending years questioning whether he had been born in the United States. They put that rancor aside for a cordial meeting after the election, but that barely veiled the chasm between them in terms of personality, politics and policy.

“We’re in a unique period,” said Newt Gingrich, the Republican former House speaker who has been an outside adviser to the new president. “Trump is a genuinely disruptive figure who threatens everything Obama stands for.”

Mr. Obama’s camp insisted they are simply defending their legacy. “It takes two people to duel, and only one seems to be aiming his weapon,” said Jennifer Psaki, White House communications director under Mr. Obama. “The uniqueness of the time is the fact that you have one unhinged and misinformed sitting president pointing his gun at a former. That is unprecedented.”

Denis R. McDonough, Mr. Obama’s last White House chief of staff, said the former president’s team could not remain silent in the face of false assertions. “What I have witnessed in recent days is former colleagues speaking out against untruths when needed,” he said. “That is best characterized as not backing down from attacks; it is not seeking out conflict.”

But inside the Trump White House, it has become an article of faith that people seeded throughout the government by Mr. Obama have been leaking everything they could get their hands on to damage the new president.

“I think that President Obama is behind it, because his people are certainly behind it,” Mr. Trump said in a recent interview with “Fox & Friends.” “And some of the leaks possibly come from that group, you know, some of the leaks, which are really very serious leaks, because they’re very bad in terms of national security.”

Other presidents have endured fractious relations. After leaving office, Herbert Hoover regularly castigated Franklin D. Roosevelt, who ostracized his predecessor. Harry S. Truman was so estranged from Dwight D. Eisenhower that they did not speak during a frosty ride to the 1953 inauguration. Ronald Reagan publicly blamed his woes on the mess he said Jimmy Carter had left him, just as Mr. Obama from time to time pointed the finger at George W. Bush.

But none of those moments compared to what America has seen in recent days. “Trump is on new ground in going after Obama,” said the historian Robert Dallek, who has written acclaimed books on John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon. Most presidents have publicly ignored their predecessors “until we get to Trump,” he added. “He is either ignorant of recent presidential history or simply doesn’t care.”

The closest analogue in modern times may have been Johnson and Nixon, both presidents who favored secret wiretapping. In his last days in office, Johnson was furious at Nixon after wiretaps revealed that a Republican intermediary seemed to be trying to undercut possible peace talks before the 1968 election. For his part, Nixon was convinced that Johnson had bugged him. Yet neither Johnson nor Nixon publicly aired those grievances at the time.

“The Nixon tapes show that Nixon always thought that Johnson taped his 1968 campaign, and possibly Nixon himself,” said Luke A. Nichter, a leading scholar of Nixon’s secret Oval Office tapes at Texas A&M University. “Nixon said that it was J. Edgar Hoover who told him this. However, based on the available records, the closest to wiretapping Nixon that L.B.J. ever came was monitoring the phone calls out of Spiro Agnew’s campaign plane.”

Before last year’s campaign, Mr. Obama told advisers that he was inclined to keep quiet after leaving office to give his successor a chance to govern, much as Mr. Bush did for him. But he expected that successor to be Hillary Clinton or even Jeb Bush or Marco Rubio. Mr. Trump was a different story, and Mr. Obama concluded he would speak out if he felt the nation’s ideals were under threat.

Ten days into the new administration, when Mr. Trump issued his first temporary travel ban on visitors from seven largely Muslim countries and cited Mr. Obama’s own actions as precedent, the former president did just that in a statement saying he “fundamentally disagrees with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith or religion.”

His team did not wait even that long. The day after the inauguration, former Obama administration officials, including John Kerry, whose tenure as secretary of state had just ended, joined a women’s march in Washington protesting Mr. Trump. Other officials appeared on television talk shows and newspaper op-ed pages to speak out against the new president’s policies.

Mr. Trump’s team has been angered by the criticism but even more by what they see as the enemy within. With so few of his own political appointees in place, much of the government is still operating with acting officials, some held over from the Obama administration. Moreover, the federal Civil Service, while officially neutral politically, is not dominated by Trump supporters, judging by vote results in Washington and its suburbs.

So when Mark Levin, the conservative radio host, contended that Mr. Obama had targeted Mr. Trump for surveillance in what he called a “silent coup,” an assertion picked up by Breitbart News, the former website of the White House chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon, it struck a chord. Along with reports that in Mr. Obama’s last days in office his administration changed the rules on distributing intelligence and made a point of spreading information about Mr. Trump’s team and Russia to different parts of the government to “preserve” it, the wiretapping allegation pushed Mr. Trump over the top.

“It’s a sign of how deeply frustrated he is,” Mr. Gingrich said. “They have a much bigger assault against them than people have had in the past.”

And so, Mr. Gingrich added, Mr. Trump needs to figure out how to get control of his own bureaucracy. “He’s not going to survive,” he said, “unless he profoundly rethinks what they’re doing and how they’re doing it.”



White House Rejects Comey’s Assertion That Wiretapping Claim Is False


WASHINGTON — The White House on Monday refused to acknowledge reports that James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, had asked the Justice Department to refute President Trump’s claim that President Barack Obama wiretapped him during the 2016 presidential campaign, and said Mr. Trump still believes he was spied on.

Mr. Comey urged the Justice Department this weekend to push back against Mr. Trump’s claims, but the department has not said anything publicly. The New York Times first reported about Mr. Comey’s request to the Justice Department on Sunday, and other news media organizations followed suit.

Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, dismissed the stories on Monday. “I have not seen anything, aside from another report based on anonymous sources, that that actually happened,” Mr. Spicer said. “I’m not aware that that occurred. I don’t think that we’re aware that that occurred.”

Mr. Spicer did not say why Mr. Trump or other administration officials had not reached out directly to the Justice Department or Mr. Comey to find out whether Mr. Trump’s accusations are true. And Mr. Spicer provided little evidence to back up Mr. Trump’s claim about Mr. Obama.

At one point, Mr. Spicer pointed to comments by Michael Mukasey, who served as attorney general in the administration of George W. Bush, as evidence of the eavesdropping. Mr. Mukasey said on television Sunday that based on reports he had read in the press, he believed Mr. Trump was probably right about the surveillance.

“There’s no question that something happened,” Mr. Spicer said. “The question is: Is it surveillance, or wiretapping or whatever?”

Mr. Spicer said that Mr. Trump still had confidence in the F.B.I. director. “There’s nothing that I have been told by him that would leave me to believe that anything is different than it was prior,” Mr. Spicer said.

But the president could be headed for a confrontation with Mr. Comey that would pit the administration against the head of the nation’s leading law enforcement agency, which is conducting an inquiry into links between Mr. Trump’s associates and Russia.

Mr. Trump, who has already fired his national security adviser and acting attorney general, could dismiss Mr. Comey, but that would probably lead to significant backlash from lawmakers and federal authorities who would see such a move as an attempt to influence the Russia investigation.

Mr. Trump started the controversy early Saturday morning with a series of Twitter posts.

“Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my ‘wires tapped’ in Trump Tower just before the victory,” Mr. Trump said. “Nothing found. This is McCarthyism!”

Mr. Trump added: “This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy!”

The White House has not officially said what led Mr. Trump to make the claims. But administration officials have acknowledged that they were primarily prompted by unverified claims by Breitbart News and conservative talk radio hosts that secret warrants were issued authorizing tapping the phones of Mr. Trump and his aides.

Mr. Comey was said to be disturbed by Mr. Trump’s claims about Mr. Obama, which insinuated that the F.B.I. had broken the law and raised the public’s expectations about how much evidence federal authorities might have had on Mr. Trump. For the Justice Department to have obtained a warrant to eavesdrop on him, federal authorities would have had to prove to a judge that there was significant evidence that he was breaking the law or was the agent of a foreign power.

Along with asking the House and Senate Intelligence Committees to investigate whether Mr. Obama eavesdropped on Mr. Trump, Mr. Spicer called on the committees to investigate what he called a steady stream of national security leaks since Mr. Trump took office. Mr. Spicer said the White House would not commit to accepting the findings of those investigations.

“I don’t think you would ever just blanketly say, ‘I’m going to accept any outcome,’” Mr. Spicer said.

Some Republicans said on Monday that spying was a hallmark of Mr. Obama’s administration, claiming that during his time in office the Internal Revenue Service targeted conservative groups. Other Republicans defended the impartiality of the Justice Department and F.B.I.

“I don’t think the F.B.I. is the Obama team, and I don’t think the men and women who are career prosecutors at D.O.J. belong to any team other than a blindfolded woman holding a set of scales,” Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said in an interview on Fox News.

“We have certain tools this country needs to keep us safe — and it is great and wise and prudent and legal for those tools to be used lawfully and appropriately,” Mr. Gowdy said, referring to court-approved wiretapping. “If they are not used lawfully and appropriately, there is a paper trail, and we will be able to find it out.”

Mr. Gowdy, who headed the committee that investigated the 2012 attacks on American outposts in Benghazi, Libya, said that with the Obama administration out of office, “any information that the current Department of Justice has that suggests the previous Department of Justice acted inappropriately — they are welcome to release it.”

Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, said he had “never seen anything so outlandish, outrageous or incomprehensible” as Mr. Trump’s claims.

“I’ve never seen anything like this — ever — since I’ve been here,” Mr. Leahy said. “It is completely unprecedented, and it is destructive of our democracy.”



What Can Be Gleaned From Trump’s Allegations of Wiretapping


President Trump’s claim on Twitter early Saturday that he had “just found out” that “President Obama was tapping my phones in October,” an accusation for which he offered no evidence, has set off another spasm surrounding his young administration. On Sunday, Mr. Trump’s spokesman said the administration was asking Congress to investigate the president’s allegation.

There is ample reason for caution because Mr. Trump has a history of making attention-grabbing and politically explosive claims that have no basis in fact. As things stand, a plausible explanation is that Mr. Trump was merely riffing off a March 3 article on the alt-right website Breitbart.com. It laid out a theory circulating in some conservative circles that President Barack Obama sought to sabotage Mr. Trump through surveillance.

The episode has heightened interest in several related surveillance issues.

Can a president order the wiretapping of an American?

Not legally. There are two lawful ways that allow government officials to target people in the United States for surveillance and to collect the contents of their phone calls and emails: criminal wiretaps, called “Title III” warrants, and national security wiretaps, called Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, orders. Both types of wiretapping are ordered by federal judges, after applications from the Justice Department.

If there was a wiretap order targeting Mr. Trump or his associates, what would that mean?

If it was a criminal wiretap, it would mean that the Justice Department had gathered sufficient evidence to convince a federal judge that someone using the phone number or email address probably committed a serious crime. If it was a national security wiretap, it would mean a federal judge on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court had a basis to believe the target was probably an agent of a foreign power, like Russia.

Could a judge have approved tapping something at Trump Tower for another reason?

Yes. For example, FISA orders have two parts. After determining that there is probable cause to believe that the target is a foreign agent, a judge also has to approve directing surveillance at a particular “facility,” like a phone line or an email address, that the target is probably using to communicate. So in theory, if there was reason to believe that some other lawful target was communicating from Trump Tower, a judge could have authorized surveillance at a facility there for that reason.

What about the computer server registered to Trump Tower?

Several news media outlets have reported that investigators last year were puzzled by data transmissions between a computer server registered to Trump Tower and a computer server associated with a Russian bank. Although Mr. Trump on Twitter talked about his “phones,” in theory a judge might determine that the computer address of the server was a facility being used by a foreign power, Russia, to communicate, and authorize surveillance of it.

Isn’t there a report about an October surveillance court order involving that server?

Yes. The Breitbart story relied heavily on a Nov. 7 article by a British writer on the news and opinion website HeatStreet. It claimed that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court had approved a “warrant” in October in connection with activity between Russian banks and the server, which it said — and Breitbart repeated — was in Trump Tower. It further stated that “it is thought in the intelligence community” that this purported warrant permitted the collection of emails and other communications of Americans connected to the server investigation, which “thus covers Donald Trump.”

As things stand, there are reasons to be skeptical. HeatStreet had vague sourcing — two “sources with links to the counterintelligence community” — and it does not regularly publish investigative stories about American intelligence or law enforcement operations. To date, reporters for The New York Times with demonstrated sources in that world have been unable to corroborate that the court issued any such order. (Computer specialists have also pointed out that the server in question does not appear to be located in Trump Tower.) On Sunday, James Clapper, who was the director of national intelligence until Jan. 20, denied to NBC News that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court had approved monitoring at Trump Tower.

What about wiretapping Michael Flynn’s calls with the Russian ambassador?

In a related matter, some conservatives have raised alarms about why the government eavesdropped on the late-December phone calls about sanctions between the Russian ambassador and Michael Flynn, who resigned last month as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser. But national security specialists say it is routine that counterintelligence officials would monitor the Russian ambassador, who is a clearly an agent of a foreign power, and so would “incidentally” pick up Mr. Flynn, too. The rules generally require officials to “minimize” the privacy intrusion by masking the names and data of incidentally intercepted Americans before sharing reports or transcripts of those calls more widely within the government. However, there is an exception if the conversation constituted foreign intelligence and the American’s identity is necessary to understand its significance, as would be the case with Mr. Flynn’s discussion of sanctions.

Did Obama loosen rules for sharing surveillance?

Yes. In January, the Obama administration changed the rules governing how the National Security Agency may share raw surveillance it intercepts abroad, where the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act does not apply and the agency may vacuum up private communications in bulk. Previously, only analysts at the agency were permitted to search through the raw trove of this information, applying “minimization” rules to information about Americans before sharing anything more widely in the government. Now, analysts from the other 16 intelligence agencies — including the F.B.I. — can sift through certain streams of raw intercepts themselves, applying “minimization” rules afterward.

Some conservative commentators, like Fox News’s Sean Hannity, have floated the theory that news media leaks about contacts between people affiliated with Mr. Trump and Russians may be attributable to this change, asking why Mr. Obama opened the door to many more officials across the government having access to raw National Security Agency intercepts. Several factors complicate that insinuation. The change did not affect collection on American soil under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which several agencies were already able to share in raw form. Moreover, the recent change had been in the works for years. President George W. Bush set it in motion in 2008, and the bureaucratic deliberations were well developed long before it became clear that Mr. Trump would become president.



Trump Tells Planned Parenthood Its Funding Can Stay if Abortion Goes


The White House, concerned about the possible political repercussions of the Republican effort to defund Planned Parenthood, has proposed preserving federal payments to the group if it discontinues providing abortions.

The proposal, which was never made formally, has been rejected as an impossibility by officials at Planned Parenthood, which receives about $500 million annually in federal funding. That money helps pay for women’s health services the organization provides, not for abortion services.

“Let’s be clear: Federal funds already do not pay for abortions,” Dawn Laguens, the executive vice president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said on Monday. “Offering money to Planned Parenthood to abandon our patients and our values is not a deal that we will ever accept. Providing critical health care services for millions of American women is nonnegotiable.”

But the outreach to allies of Planned Parenthood is a glimpse of the internal struggle inside a White House torn between trying to satisfy the conservative base that elected President Trump and responding to the views of his daughter Ivanka Trump, who urged her father to tread carefully on the Planned Parenthood issue during the Republican primary contest.

Ms. Trump has no formal role in the administration, but as an informal adviser she has made women’s issues a focus. She has had a mixed record of success in the administration’s early days, but during the campaign, she was able to nudge Mr. Trump toward a nuanced view of Planned Parenthood’s work.

Mr. Trump confirmed the discussions in a statement on Monday to The New York Times.

“As I said throughout the campaign, I am pro-life and I am deeply committed to investing in women’s health and plan to significantly increase federal funding in support of nonabortion services such as cancer screenings,” he said. “Polling shows the majority of Americans oppose public funding for abortion, even those who identify as pro-choice. There is an opportunity for organizations to continue the important work they do in support of women’s health, while not providing abortion services.”

Indeed, Mr. Trump made similar statements as a candidate, putting him at odds with other Republicans in a primary race characterized by conservative views.

In private discussions with people close to Planned Parenthood, White House officials have suggested that there could even be an increase in federal earmarks if the work related to abortion ends.

At various points during the campaign, Mr. Trump spoke favorably of the work of Planned Parenthood, even while saying he would support withdrawing its funding if abortions continued.

“Millions and millions of women — cervical cancer, breast cancer — are helped by Planned Parenthood,” he said in February 2016 at a debate hosted by CNN. “I would defund it because I’m pro-life, but millions of women are helped by Planned Parenthood.”

Marjorie Dannenfelser, the president of the Susan B. Anthony List, which supports anti-abortion candidates, said Mr. Trump was living up to his campaign promise.

“We’re not used to that in politics,” she said. She added that she had no problem with the deal because her issue with Planned Parenthood is with its abortion work.

Until 2011, when he announced he opposed abortion rights, Mr. Trump had supported legal measures allowing abortions.

Congressional Republicans have said they will soon move legislation to strip all federal funds from Planned Parenthood, and a provision for doing that was included in the House Republican bill to replace the Affordable Care Act released on Monday night.

Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, suggested that Mr. Trump had authorized the proposal because he wanted to be able to claim that he had made an offer to Planned Parenthood and that officials with the group were not being reasonable.

“The Trump administration needs to stop playing political games that would put access to the full range of safe reproductive care at risk, or they will get the fight of their lives,” Ms. Gillibrand said.

Diane Max, a major donor to Planned Parenthood, called the offer “an absurd play” and said Mr. Trump had been “sympathetic to a woman’s right to choose until it was politically unpopular” for him.



Sexist Political Criticism Finds a New Target: Kellyanne Conway


What powerful political woman is mocked for her clothes, is the target of pictures on Twitter depicting her as haggard and is routinely called a witch and a bitch?

If you guessed Hillary Clinton, you’re right.

But if you guessed Kellyanne Conway, you’re right, too.

Misogyny, it seems, remains a bipartisan exercise. Whatever legitimate criticisms can be leveled at each woman, it’s striking how often that anger is expressed using the same sexist themes, from women as well as men.

Mrs. Clinton “repeats her tacky outfits,” one Twitter critic sniped. The Inauguration Day outfit of Ms. Conway, a counselor to President Trump, looked like “a night terror of an android majorette.”

Mrs. Clinton’s hair has drawn relentless derision; one Twitter user recently asked: “Why does Kellyanne Conway always look like she’s still drunk & wearing make up from last night’s bender?”

And both women have been repeatedly compared to witches from “The Wizard of Oz,” most recently in pictures shared on Twitter tying Ms. Conway to the witch killed under Dorothy’s house.

The two women are at opposite ideological poles, but they stir up the same lingering cultural discomfort with ambitious, assertive women.

“These sexist memes are not the purview of one party,” said Karen Finney, a senior adviser to the Clinton campaign. “We fear strong women and women with power. These attacks are meant to delegitimize that power.”

Ms. Conway has drawn scorn, and been disinvited from some news programs, for her references to a “Bowling Green massacre” that never took place and her defense of claims about the size of the crowd at Mr. Trump’s inauguration as “alternative facts.” Yet some of the criticisms have taken on a distinctly sexualized tone.

Witness the furor over her sitting on her knees on a couch in the Oval Office during a reception for presidents of historically black colleges. While she drew fire for disrespect, some of the criticisms included digs about her spreading her legs and raunchy allusions to oral sex, Monica Lewinsky and Bill Clinton. Representative Cedric L. Richmond, Democrat of Louisiana, told a now-notorious joke that hers was a “familiar” position in the Oval Office of the 1990s, drawing a rebuke from none other than Chelsea Clinton. (Mr. Richmond apologized Sunday evening.)

A “Saturday Night Live” skit riffed on Ms. Conway as a “Fatal Attraction” stalker, breaking into the CNN correspondent Jake Tapper’s house to seduce him into having her on his show.

“There seems to be great resentment of both as power hungry and wanting to control men,” said Marjorie J. Spruill, the author of “Divided We Stand: The Battle Over Women’s Rights and Family Values That Polarized American Politics.” “Whereas Hillary is called castrating or shrewish, Conway is often called a slut. The implication is that she is using femininity to control men.”

Ms. Spruill noted that Ms. Conway had leaned back to take pictures as a favor to the participants, but that some critics had cast the pose as a sexual come-on.

Ironies abound. Ms. Conway is loathed by many Clinton aides as the architect of a presidential campaign that they felt used overtly and implicitly sexist messages. Mr. Trump repeatedly denigrated women for their appearance and, after taking office, directed his female staff members to “dress like women.”

Many conservative women, from Sarah Palin to Ann Coulter, have emphasized their femininity to distance themselves from feminists, whom they accuse of hating men. In a recent interview at the Conservative Political Action Conference, Ms. Conway said she supported many feminist principles but said she would not call herself one because feminism is anti-male, pro-abortion and identified with the left.

“I think some of the reticence that might be coming across in not a huge chorus of defense of Kellyanne Conway in the face of these sexist comments is the feeling that she doesn’t have our back,” said Gillian Thomas, a senior staff lawyer of the Women’s Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union.

“It’s a shame,” Ms. Thomas continued. “If women were more united and speaking up at this behavior, including when it’s perpetrated by the left, we’d all be a lot better off.”

Ms. Conway suggested in an interview with The Daily Caller that there would have been more outrage at the comments if she had been a liberal woman, adding, “And it is not just if I were a liberal woman, but if I were a pro-abortion one.” Ms. Conway did not respond to a message left with her assistant requesting comment for this article.

Still, Ms. Conway has spirited defenders on the right on social media who say she should be championed as an example of a groundbreaking woman in politics instead of mocked in sexist terms, and some liberal women in Facebook comments chided others for sexism.

“Ladies & Gents, I disagree with her as much as anyone,” wrote someone identified as Melissa Mae. “It would be nice to see comments sticking to valid points instead of ALWAYS going after women on the basis of ‘looks.’”

Mirya R. Holman, an assistant professor of political science at Tulane University who studies gender and politics, said, “This does mimic what conservative women have said in the past: ‘You liberals think you’re so enlightened, but we still get people saying vile things about us.’”

Jennifer Palmieri, the director of communications for the Clinton campaign, who memorably clashed with Ms. Conway at a postelection forum at Harvard, also sees echoes of the sexism that dogged her candidate in the attacks on Ms. Conway.

She said she believed Ms. Conway should be held accountable for her actions. But she noted that while Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s chief strategist, is portrayed as an “evil genius” who cannily promotes images of an America at risk from immigrants and foreign competitors, Ms. Conway is depicted as “crazy” for devising and promoting similar messages.

“What I find really disturbing is because he’s a man, that’s really smart and strategic,” Ms. Palmieri said. “Why is there not a theory behind what Kellyanne does?”

Whether the attacks come from the right or the left, they show a persistent anger toward women who step outside conventional roles. Social media has long enabled a thriving subculture of the violent disparagement of women, such as the GamerGate threats toward those who challenged the male bastion of video games. Much as latent racism surfaced during the presidency of Barack Obama, this election exposed a vitriol toward powerful women that continues to erupt, beyond the confines of Twitter or Reddit.

“To me, the 2016 election was hopefully an opportunity to be reminded that we’re not in some kind of postgender society,” Professor Holman said. “There’s a smaller set of acceptable behaviors for women.”

Ms. Finney, a longtime Clinton aide, has watched those issues play out for more than 20 years in public life as Mrs. Clinton served as a stand-in for debates about women’s roles. She said she and conservative women would sit in green rooms awaiting television appearances and trade stories about how they were attacked.

“There is this sense: ‘Are you kidding me?’” she said. “‘Are we going back to this?’ Maybe we have to go back to go forward.”



Ben Carson Refers to Slaves as ‘Immigrants’ in First Remarks to HUD Staff


Ben Carson’s first full week as secretary of Housing and Urban Development got off to a rough start on Monday after he described African slaves as “immigrants” during his first speech to hundreds of assembled department employees. The remark, which came as part of a 40-minute address on the theme of America as “a land of dreams and opportunity,” was met with swift outrage online.

Mr. Carson turned his attention to slavery after describing photographs of poor immigrants displayed at the Ellis Island National Museum of Immigration. These new arrivals worked long hours, six or seven days a week, with little pay, he said. And before them, there were slaves.

“That’s what America is about, a land of dreams and opportunity,’’ he said. “There were other immigrants who came here in the bottom of slave ships, worked even longer, even harder for less. But they too had a dream that one day their sons, daughters, grandsons, granddaughters, great-grandsons, great-granddaughters, might pursue prosperity and happiness in this land.”

The comparison was first reported by USA Today and quickly drew the ire of social media users who attacked the secretary, who is African-American, for what they saw as racially insensitive comments. On Twitter, the comedian and actress Whoopi Goldberg recommended Mr. Carson watch the 1980s mini-series “Roots.”

The Department of Housing and Urban Development was stunned by the uproar and spent part of the afternoon responding to the news media on Twitter. In a statement, it said critics were watching only a short clip from a 30-minute speech and were viewing the remarks in bad faith.

“This is the most cynical interpretation of the secretary’s remarks to an army of welcoming HUD employees,” the department said in a statement. “No one honestly believes he equates voluntary immigration with involuntary servitude!”

A spokesman for the department said Mr. Carson’s speech appeared to cause little upset among the employees who had gathered to hear him speak. Several hundred people attended the event and many lingered afterward to snap selfies with Mr. Carson, who was sworn in last Thursday.

On Monday night, following a radio interview in which he defended his remarks earlier in the day, Mr. Carson also did so on Twitter. “You can be an involuntary immigrant,” he said, adding that “slaves didn’t just give up and die, our ancestors made something of themselves.” He continued, “An immigrant is: ‘a person who comes to live permanently in a foreign country.’”

Mr. Carson’s speech was not the first time that a newly minted Trump official has caused offense with their handling of African-American history.

Mr. Trump himself has described “inner city” neighborhoods as a crime-ridden “hell” in need of a tough police response, a vision of urban life that has been received unfavorably by many minority leaders.

Last week, the new education secretary, Betsy DeVos, caused an uproar by describing historically black colleges and universities — founded because black students were not allowed to attend segregated white schools — as “real pioneers” of school choice.

She later backtracked, saying in a statement that the history of black colleges and universities “was born, not out of mere choice, but out of necessity, in the face of racism, and in the aftermath of the Civil War.”



Sean Spicer Meets the Press. No Cameras Allowed, Again.


For the country’s most prominent political spokesman, Sean Spicer is not spending a whole lot of time in front of the camera.

Monday was the seventh straight day that Mr. Spicer, President Trump’s press secretary, declined to hold a televised White House press briefing, an unusually long drought for someone whose role is traditionally to be the most visible face of a presidential administration.

Instead, Mr. Spicer — who since the inauguration had become a highly rated, if often-parodied, staple of daytime television — conducted a question-and-answer session with no cameras allowed, over the objections of the White House Correspondents’ Association.

The briefing was certain to be contentious. For the first time, Mr. Spicer addressed explosive and unproven allegations Mr. Trump made over the weekend that his predecessor, Barack Obama, had wiretapped his phones at Trump Tower during the presidential campaign.

The public was not given a way to watch the briefing but was able to listen via an audio-only broadcast by PBS.

At one point, when a CNN reporter tried to interject with a question, Mr. Spicer pushed back, saying: “You’re not on camera. You don’t need to jump in.” (He called on the reporter later.)

Past press secretaries said it was unusual that they would stay off television for a full week. And Mr. Spicer’s absence from the airwaves coincides with a rough period: He was criticized by Mr. Trump in a Fox News interview, and his closest ally in the administration, Reince Priebus, the chief of staff, is under fire from rival factions within the White House.

On Friday, Mr. Spicer was among the group of Mr. Trump’s senior aides temporarily banished from Air Force One after Mr. Trump erupted at his staff in frustration during an Oval Office meeting.

Mr. Trump’s West Wing is awash in palace intrigue, and people in and around the administration noted that two other representatives — Mr. Spicer’s deputy, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, and the White House counselor, Kellyanne Conway — appeared on morning television shows on Monday to speak on the president’s behalf. The president has also privately expressed frustration with the performance of his press office.

Press secretaries do not always perform their duties on TV. Like his predecessors in Democratic and Republican administrations, Mr. Spicer speaks with journalists in more informal, off-the-air settings several times a week — when the president is traveling, for instance. But these so-called gaggles are typically interspersed among more formal briefings carried live on cable news.

The former press secretaries Ari Fleischer and Mike McCurry have argued that cameras should not be allowed in the briefings at all — the thought being that the presence of cameras has helped turn the briefings into spectacles rather than considered discussions of policy.

In an email, Mr. Spicer said he had lived up to his pledge to hold briefings with reporters on a near-daily basis, “some on camera, some off.” He noted that the White House had rolled out its revised executive order on immigration on Monday — a nod to a past practice in which the press secretary forwent an on-camera briefing on days featuring a major announcement.

Mr. Trump’s secretary of state, secretary of Homeland Security and attorney general held an event with journalists on Monday, but the three officials did not respond to questions. And Mr. Trump signed his executive order without photographers or reporters on-hand to record the event, a break from typical practice.

When reporters at Monday’s briefing raised concerns about openness, Mr. Spicer defended his administration. “I’ve heard from several of you that we have gone above and beyond allowing the press into events,” Mr. Spicer said, adding, “I think this president has been extremely transparent.”

Hours after the briefing, Mr. Spicer was approached by reporters on a driveway outside the West Wing, where he acquiesced to answering a few questions on-camera.

Mr. Spicer did make one scheduled television appearance in the last week, on “Fox & Friends,” the Trump-friendly morning show, which ran a feature about the press secretary’s life at the White House.

When the Fox interviewer, Abby Huntsman, asked Mr. Spicer whom he feared more — the president or the news media — Mr. Spicer, unsmiling, replied, “I don’t fear anybody.”

He added, “I don’t want to disappoint this president.”



Trump University Lawsuits May Not Be Closed After All


President Trump’s postelection agreement to pay $25 million appeared to settle the fraud claims arising from his defunct for-profit education venture, Trump University. But a former student is now asking to opt out of the settlement, a move that, if permitted, could put the deal in jeopardy.

Lawyers for the student, Sherri Simpson of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., on Monday asked a federal judge in San Diego to reject the settlement unless former students are given an opportunity to be excluded from the deal so they can sue Mr. Trump individually.

If the judge, Gonzalo Curiel, decides that Ms. Simpson and potentially others should have that chance, legal experts say it could disrupt the settlement because Mr. Trump and his lawyers saw the deal as a way to resolve all of the claims, once and for all, to avoid a trial and distractions to his presidency.

“If even one person could opt out of the settlement and force a trial, that might, in fact, crater the deal,” said Shaun Martin, a professor at the University of San Diego School of Law. “I’m sure Judge Curiel will be aware of that.”

The agreement, announced in November, appeared to resolve years of hotly contested litigation, including two federal class-action cases in San Diego and a separate suit by Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general. Students maintained that they were cheated out of tuition through high-pressure sales tactics and misleading claims about what they would learn. At one point during the contentious case, Mr. Trump questioned Judge Curiel’s impartiality based on his Mexican heritage.

Mr. Trump, who has rejected the claims and did not acknowledge fault in the settlement, posted on Twitter after the settlement announcement that he “did not have the time to go through a long but winning trial on Trump U.”

Patrick Coughlin, a lawyer representing the class-action plaintiffs, said that it was a “terrific settlement” and that the objection seemed “politically motivated.” He said he feared that the objection could result in delays for students who have waited years to get money back. “She could have excluded herself before and pursued her own litigation,” he said. “That time passed.”

Lawyers for Mr. Trump did not respond to messages seeking comment.

Monday is the deadline for students to file claims to participate in the settlement, or object to it — as in the case of Ms. Simpson.

Her lawyers argue that a notice sent to students about the class-action lawsuits in 2015 left the impression that they could later request to be excluded from a settlement, but that opportunity was not afforded to them in the agreement.

“There was precious little reason to exercise the right to opt out at that juncture” in 2015, wrote one of Ms. Simpson’s lawyers, Gary Friedman of New York, in the objection filed on Monday. “The case was barreling toward trial, by all accounts.”

Carl Tobias, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law, said that Judge Curiel would probably give the objection serious consideration, but that he would have to weigh it against “substantial pressure to hold the deal together.”

“A lot of work has gone into this, and people are generally satisfied all around,” Mr. Tobias said.

Plaintiffs’ lawyers have said that they would waive their fees and that they expected roughly 7,000 former students to recover half to all of what they spent on courses.

If they are allowed, it is not clear how many former students may seek to opt out.

In 2010, Ms. Simpson — a lawyer who spoke out about her Trump University experience during last year’s campaign — paid $1,495 for a three-day seminar, in which she said instructors pressured her to sign up for the $35,000 “Gold Elite” program under the premise that she would have access to the “resources of Mr. Trump and his real estate organization,” she wrote in a sworn statement. She split the fee with another student, spending about $19,000 in total, Mr. Friedman said.

But she soon grew dissatisfied when promises went unfulfilled. She wrote, “The Gold Elite program was a scam.”



U.S. Starts Deploying Thaad Antimissile System in South Korea, After North’s Tests


HONG KONG — Alarmed over North Korea’s increasingly provocative behavior, the United States said Tuesday that it had started to deploy an antimissile system in South Korea that China has angrily opposed as a threat to its security.

The deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system, or Thaad, came after North Korea launched four ballistic missiles on Monday, apparently in response to joint naval exercises by South Korea and the United States. Those launchings led South Korea to call for the accelerated deployment of Thaad.

A spokeswoman for the United States forces in South Korea said that one of five major components of the missile system had arrived on Monday. Officials said it could take a couple of months for the system to become fully operational. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis had urged the South Koreans to move ahead with the deployment of the system during a visit to Seoul in February.

In telephone calls on Monday to South Korean and Japanese leaders, President Trump said the United States would stand with its Asian allies and take steps to defend against North Korea’s growing ballistic missile threat.

Mr. Trump emphasized that the United States was taking steps to “enhance our ability to deter and defend against North Korea’s ballistic missiles using the full range of United States military capabilities,” the White House said in a statement.

China has been incensed over the deployment of the system, fearing it could give the United States military the ability to quickly detect and track missiles launched in China, according to analysts. A spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Geng Shuang, said Tuesday that China would “take the necessary steps to safeguard our own security interests, and the consequences will be shouldered by the United States and South Korea.”

Mr. Geng warned the two countries not to “go further and further down the wrong road.”

Yang Xiyu, a former senior Chinese official who once oversaw talks with North Korea, said China was worried that the deployment of the system would open the door to a broader American network of antimissile systems in the region, possibly in places like Japan and the Philippines, to counter a growing Chinese military.

“China can see benefits only for a U.S. regional plan, not for South Korea’s national security interest,” he said.

The state media recently encouraged Chinese citizens to boycott South Korean products and companies over the Thaad issue. The Chinese authorities recently forced the closing of 23 stores owned by Lotte, a South Korean conglomerate that agreed to turn over land that it owned for use in the Thaad deployment. Hundreds of Chinese protested at Lotte stores over the weekend, some holding banners that read, “Get out of China.”

Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., the head of the United States Pacific Command, announced the start of the deployment, saying that “continued provocative actions by North Korea, to include yesterday’s launch of multiple missiles, only confirm the prudence of our alliance decision last year to deploy Thaad to South Korea.”

The developments come as South Korea is consumed by turmoil over the impeachment of President Park Geun-hye, whose administration agreed to the Thaad deployment. But with the president facing possible removal from office over a corruption scandal, the fate of the system had been in doubt. Its accelerated deployment could make it harder, if not impossible, for her successor to head off its installation.

Moon Jae-in, an opposition leader who is the front-runner in the race to replace President Park, acknowledged that it would be difficult to overturn South Korea’s agreement to deploy the system. But he has insisted that the next South Korean government should have the final say on the matter, saying that Ms. Park’s government never allowed a full debate on it.

Last year, thousands of people in Seongju, a rural southern county in South Korea, protested when it was announced that a Thaad battery would be established there. They said they feared that the system would harm their agricultural livelihoods. Many South Koreans also worry that any expansion of military ties with the United States could worsen already festering tensions with North Korea and China.

Under its deal with Washington, South Korea is providing the land for the missile system and will build the base, but the United States will pay for the system, to be built by Lockheed Martin, as well as its operational costs.

The United States military statement said that “the first elements” of Thaad were deployed on Monday, the same day as the North’s missile launchings.

A C-17 cargo plane landed at the United States military’s Osan Air Base, about 40 miles south of Seoul, on Monday evening, carrying two trucks, each mounted with a Thaad launchpad. More equipment and personnel will start arriving in the coming weeks, South Korean military officials said.

“South Korea and the United States are doing their best to make the Thaad system operational as soon as possible,” the South Korean Defense Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday, adding that the system was necessary “to protect South Korea from the nuclear and missile threat from North Korea.”

The ministry declined to specify when the system would be operational. But the South Korean news agency Yonhap reported that the deployment was likely to be completed in one or two months, with the system ready for use by April.

The arrival of Thaad equipment was announced after South Korea’s acting president, Hwang Kyo-ahn, talked with Mr. Trump on the phone on Tuesday morning. The two leaders condemned the North’s missile tests as a violation of the United Nations Security Council resolutions and agreed to beef up the allies’ joint defense posture, strengthen sanctions and step up pressure against the North, Mr. Hwang’s office said.

On the phone with Mr. Trump, Mr. Hwang called the North’s nuclear and missile threat a “present and direct danger” to its allies, his office said.

The Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, said he spoke for 25 minutes on Tuesday with Mr. Trump, who reiterated his pledge to stand by Japan “100 percent,” according to the public broadcaster NHK. “I appreciate that the United States is showing that all the options are on the table,” Mr. Abe said, adding that Japan was “ready to fulfill larger roles and responsibilities” to deter North Korea.

Takashi Kawakami, a professor of international politics and security at Takushoku University in Tokyo, said the deployment of Thaad could put the United States in a stronger position to consider a pre-emptive strike on North Korea. If the United States took such action, he said, “North Korea is going to make a counterattack on the U.S. or Japan or another place, so in this case they will use Thaad.”

With tensions increasing over the deployment of the system, some in China have advocated stern measures, including severing diplomatic relations with South Korea, or more.

A retired general, Luo Yuan, even suggested that China destroy the system with a military strike.

“We could conduct a surgical hard-kill operation that would destroy the target, paralyzing it and making it unable to hit back,” General Luo wrote in Global Times, a state-run newspaper.



A Eureka Moment for Two Times Reporters: North Korea’s Missile Launches Were Failing Too Often


WASHINGTON — The launches were failing too often.

That was the topic of the conversation I was having one day late last spring with Bill Broad, one of The Times’s premier science writers. Just about every time the North Koreans tried to launch an advanced missile, it seemed to end up in the ocean seconds later. Maybe it was bad luck, we said to each other, or bad parts, or bad welding. After all, the North Koreans are not known for quality-control. Or maybe something else was going on.

That was the beginning of an eight-month-long investigation into public and not so public evidence that the United States was experimenting with a new form of missile defense, one that didn’t rely exclusively on trying to hit a warhead in midflight with another warhead. It was a fascinating journey that took us from defense-contractor conferences to the inner sanctum of cyber experimentation to, in the end, the Trump White House.

Bill specializes in all things nuclear, including missile technology — he’s written three books on the subject. I specialize in national security policy, and have a particular interest in cyber conflict and how it is changing the ways in which countries compete with each other. We have worked together for 30 years, since the cold day in January 1986 when we were both thrown onto a team that investigated the technological and political roots of the space shuttle Challenger disaster. (The Times won a Pulitzer the next year for that investigation.)

Our biggest stories usually live at the intersection of technology and national security. Back during the last Bush administration we spent 14 months investigating how Abdul Qadeer Khan, the head of Pakistan’s nuclear program, created a black market for these weapons — and our reporting helped lead to his arrest. During that investigation, from the back of a smoky bar in Vienna, we extracted the story that Libya had obtained an early Chinese blueprint for an atomic bomb. (Don’t ask — and yes, The Times picked up an impressive bar tab.) Together, we also plunged into the details of the Iranian nuclear program.

So when we saw what was happening to those North Korean launches, we had a hunch about what was going on. My last book, “Confront and Conceal,” detailed the secret American- and Israeli-led cyber attacks on Iran’s nuclear program using the Stuxnet worm, a sophisticated self-replicating malware computer program aimed at the kind of industrial equipment that controls nuclear facilities, among other sites. That prompted the question: Could there be a Stuxnet for North Korea? (When a savvy National Public Radio reporter once asked that of John Brennan, the former director of the C.I.A., he laughed and said, “Next question.”)

So Bill did what Bill always does: He dug into the literature. Soon he showed up at my desk in Washington with a grin, toting an inch-and-a-half-thick pile of Pentagon testimony and public documents from companies like Raytheon, which makes missile defenses, describing a program called “left of launch” that allows for the sabotage of an adversary’s systems before anyone presses the big red button. These blended old-style electronic warfare and new-style cyber attacks, with some loud echoes of the techniques used in “Olympic Games,” the code name for the Iran sabotage. At the Republican National Convention in Cleveland in July, I briefed Dean Baquet, our executive editor, and Matt Purdy, a deputy managing editor, about our line of reporting, and they immediately urged us to dig deeper.

So we did. In documents and interviews, we found plenty of evidence that North Korea was a target; the hard scientific problem was determining whether the cyber and other electronic attacks — and not engineering incompetence or insiders working for the West — were actually responsible for the failed launches. With more digging, we arrived at some theories about the mechanics of how it was all happening.

Then came the sensitive part of these investigations: telling the government what we had, trying to get official comment (there has been none) and assessing whether any of our revelations could affect continuing operations. In the last weeks of the Obama administration, we traveled out to the director of national intelligence’s offices: a huge complex in an unmarked office park a few miles beyond the C.I.A.’s headquarters in Fairfax, Va. Such conversations are always fraught. Understandably, government officials don’t want to confirm or deny anything — in fact, they can’t. But it’s still important to listen to any concerns they might have about the details we are planning to publish so that we can weigh them with our editors.

I had been distracted by other stories — including a reconstruction, in collaboration with my colleagues, of the Russian hack of the election — so our reporting continued past Inauguration Day. That meant it would need to incorporate President Trump’s options for dealing with the North Korean threat. It also meant going through those discussions about the program again, this time with a new administration whose key officials had barely had time to understand their new jobs, much less develop a Korea strategy. Like the Obama officials we dealt with before them, they engaged the subject deeply and professionally.

As Dean often says, we do not take lightly the publication of secret information, especially in national security cases. We also fully expect that the government’s first reaction will usually be some variant of: “You shouldn’t print anything, because the subject is so sensitive, the diplomacy so delicate and the reaction of nations like North Korea so unpredictable.”

We take a somewhat different view: If America is going to have an informed public discussion about how to deal with the nation’s most looming threats, this kind of investigative journalism is essential. In this case, that meant uncovering, and explaining, both the dimensions of North Korea’s nuclear program and the American struggle to defeat it. If America’s old concept for missile defense isn’t working and if throwing high-tech malware at the North Koreans isn’t a silver bullet, those are critical facts about the choices a new president faces.

We’ve been there before: At the height of the nuclear arms race, The Times covered the debate over nuclear strategy, including what kind of global rules should be established to govern how the world’s most terrible weapons are controlled, without delving too deeply into the “how” of building a bomb. The same careful navigation is necessary when it comes to cyber attacks.

Our story went through dozens of drafts, as we tried to make an enormously complicated subject clear. In the Washington bureau, Bill Hamilton, who oversees national security reporting, turned his editing talents to helping us shape a narrative that mixed news, analysis and a long history of efforts to deal with a North Korean program that has bedeviled the last five presidents. David McCraw, the Times lawyer who is a veteran of many big stories on national security issues, read draft after draft to help us navigate a raft of complex issues. A talented team of graphics and photo editors put together a powerful package that helped explain the reach and progress of North Korea’s weapons programs. Translations were prepared in Korean and Chinese, giving the story a broader reach.

On Sunday, over the phone, Bill Broad said to me what he always says after a big project: “This was great. Let’s never do it again.” And then, of course, he started talking about where we might take the story next.



North Korea, Citing Kim Jong-nam Dispute, Blocks Malaysians From Exiting


BANGKOK — North Korea said on Tuesday that it was barring all Malaysians from leaving the country until there is a “fair settlement” of a dispute over the assassination in Kuala Lumpur of Kim Jong-nam, the half brother of North Korea’s leader.

Malaysia responded in kind, with Prime Minister Najib Razak instructing the police to prevent all North Koreans from leaving Malaysia until he was assured of the safety of Malaysians in North Korea. The developments were a dramatic escalation in the diplomatic dispute over Mr. Kim’s killing, in which the Malaysian police have said that several North Koreans are suspects.

“This abhorrent act, effectively holding our citizens hostage, is in total disregard of all international law and diplomatic norms,” Mr. Najib said of North Korea’s action.

Mr. Najib said he had called an emergency meeting of Malaysia’s National Security Council.

It was unclear what resolution to the Kim case North Korea was seeking. But it has rejected the findings of the Malaysian police that Mr. Kim was poisoned by VX nerve agent at the Malaysian capital’s international airport on Feb. 13, and it has demanded that his body be handed over to the North Korean Embassy. The Malaysian police want to question several North Koreans in the case, including a diplomat.

In its statement Tuesday, North Korea said it would “temporarily ban the exit of Malaysian citizens” until the safety of North Korean diplomats and citizens in Malaysia is “fully guaranteed through the fair settlement of the case that occurred in Malaysia,” the state-run Korean Central News Agency reported.

Malaysian officials said there were 11 Malaysians in North Korea: embassy staff, their family members and two United Nations workers.

Malaysia has long had a reputation for getting along with other nations and allowing travelers easy access, and such a diplomatic dispute is highly unusual. About 1,000 North Koreans are believed to live and work in Malaysia; until Monday, they had been allowed to enter the country without a visa.

“As a peace-loving nation, Malaysia is committed to maintaining friendly relations with all countries,” Mr. Najib said Tuesday. “However, protecting our citizens is my first priority, and we will not hesitate to take all measures necessary when they are threatened.”

Mr. Kim, the elder half brother of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, was killed when two women rubbed poison on his face at Kuala Lumpur International Airport, the Malaysian police said. The women, one from Vietnam and one from Indonesia, have been arrested and charged with murder.

The Malaysian police, which conducted an autopsy of Mr. Kim’s body over North Korea’s objections, concluded that he had been poisoned by VX nerve agent, a banned chemical weapon known to be in North Korea’s arsenal. North Korea has suggested that he died of heart failure and accused Malaysia of working with other countries to defame Pyongyang.

“Once it denied responsibility for the assassination, North Korea had no option but to push back in a tit-for-tat escalation,” Kim Yong-hyun, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul, said on Tuesday. “Offense is the best defense for the North.”

The police are seeking seven North Korean men in connection with Mr. Kim’s killing, including four who are believed to have returned to North Korea. Khalid Abu Bakar, Malaysia’s top police official, confirmed on Tuesday at a news conference that at least two suspects had taken refuge at the North Korean Embassy, where they cannot be arrested by the Malaysian police under international rules of diplomacy. He said it was “a matter of time before they come out.”

North Korea has not acknowledged that the man killed at the airport was indeed Kim Jong-nam.

Lim Kit Siang, a leader of Malaysia’s opposition Democratic Action Party, called on Parliament to adopt an emergency motion condemning what he called North Korea’s “hostage terrorism” and urging Pyongyang to let Malaysians leave.

North Korea’s statement on Tuesday described the exit ban as temporary. But Pyongyang has been accused of playing hostage politics before, partly to complicate negotiations over its nuclear arms and missile development. In 2014, North Korea said it would reopen an investigation into Japanese citizens it was accused of abducting during the Cold War, but it halted that inquiry last year in retaliation for sanctions imposed by Japan over a rocket launch.

Tuesday’s developments follow the tit-for-tat expulsion of ambassadors between the two countries. Kang Chol, North Korea’s ambassador to Malaysia, was expelled on Monday over what Malaysia considered to be insulting comments. North Korea responded by formally expelling Malaysia’s ambassador, Mohamad Nizan Mohamad, though he had already been recalled to Malaysia for consultations.



Supreme Court Won’t Hear Major Case on Transgender Rights


WASHINGTON — Prompted by the Trump administration’s reversal of the federal government’s position on transgender rights, the Supreme Court announced on Monday that it would not decide whether a transgender boy in Virginia could use the boys’ bathroom at his high school.

The decision not to take his case, which came as the court is awaiting the appointment of a ninth member, means there will be no ruling on the highly charged issue of transgender rights this term. The issue will almost certainly return to the Supreme Court, probably in a year or two.

Until then, lawsuits in the lower courts will proceed, the political climate and public opinion may shift, and the court’s composition will almost certainly change.

Monday’s development was a setback for transgender rights advocates, who had hoped the Supreme Court, which established a constitutional right to same-sex marriage two years ago, would aid their cause. 

Instead, in a one-sentence order on Monday, the Supreme Court vacated an appeals court decision in favor of the student, Gavin Grimm, and sent the case back for further consideration in light of the new guidance from the administration.

The Supreme Court had agreed in October to hear the case, and the justices were scheduled to hear arguments this month. The case would have been the court’s first encounter with transgender rights, and it would probably have been one of the biggest decisions of a fairly sleepy term.

“Thousands of transgender students across the country will have to wait even longer for a final decision from our nation’s highest court affirming their basic rights,” said Sarah Warbelow, the legal director of the Human Rights Campaign.

Kerri Kupec, a lawyer with Alliance Defending Freedom, a conservative Christian group, welcomed Monday’s development.

“The first duty of school districts is to protect the bodily privacy rights of all of the students who attend their schools and to respect the rights of parents who understandably don’t want their children exposed in intimate changing areas like locker rooms and showers,” she said.

There are other cases on transgender rights in lower courts, including a challenge to a North Carolina law that, in government buildings, requires transgender people to use bathrooms that correspond with the gender listed on their birth certificates. The law has drawn protests, boycotts and lawsuits.

The question in the Virginia case was whether Mr. Grimm, 17, could use the boys’ bathroom in his southeast Virginia high school. The Obama administration said yes, relying on its interpretation of a federal regulation under a 1972 law, Title IX, that bans discrimination “on the basis of sex” in schools that receive federal money.

The Department of Education said in 2015 that schools “generally must treat transgender students consistent with their gender identity.” Last year, the department went further, saying that schools could lose federal money if they discriminated against transgender students.

The Trump administration withdrew that guidance last month, saying it had been formulated without “due regard for the primary role of the states and local school districts in establishing educational policy.”

The letter announcing the new policy, signed by officials in the Education and Justice Departments, said schools must still take steps to protect all students from “discrimination, bullying or harassment.”

Individual school districts remain free to let transgender students use the bathrooms of their choice. The practical effect of the Trump administration’s change in position was limited, as a federal court had issued a nationwide injunction barring enforcement of the Obama administration’s guidance.

It will now be up to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, Va., to answer whether Title IX protects the rights of Mr. Grimm and other transgender students.

Mr. Grimm attends Gloucester High School. For a time, school administrators allowed him to use the boys’ bathroom, but the local school board later adopted a policy that required students to use the bathrooms and locker rooms for their “corresponding biological genders.” The board added that “students with gender identity issues” would be allowed to use private bathrooms.

The American Civil Liberties Union, which represents Mr. Grimm, told the justices that requiring Mr. Grimm to use a private bathroom had been humiliating and had, quoting him, “turned him into ‘a public spectacle’ before the entire community, ‘like a walking freak show.’”

After Mr. Grimm challenged the school board’s bathroom policy in court in 2015, a divided Fourth Circuit panel ruled the policy unlawful. A trial judge then ordered school officials to let Mr. Grimm use the boys’ bathroom.

A 1975 regulation adopted under Title IX allowed schools to provide “separate toilet, locker rooms and shower facilities on the basis of sex.” The Fourth Circuit said that the rule was ambiguous and that the Education Department’s interpretation of it was entitled to “controlling weight.”

Both sides had hoped the Supreme Court would decide the case, Gloucester County School Board v. G.G., No. 16-273, even after the Trump administration withdrew its guidance on the meaning of the regulation.

In a letter to the justices last week, Joshua A. Block, a lawyer with the A.C.L.U., said the administration’s change in position did not render the case moot, as the basic question of what Title IX meant remained. “The underlying principle that discrimination against transgender individuals is a form of discrimination on the basis of sex has been widely accepted in the lower courts for years,” he wrote.

“Delaying resolution would provide no benefit to the court and would needlessly prolong harm to transgender students across the country awaiting this court’s decision,” Mr. Block wrote.

In a second letter, S. Kyle Duncan, a lawyer for the school board, agreed that the case should proceed, though he suggested a brief delay to allow the Trump administration to weigh in.

A ruling on the meaning of Title IX, Mr. Duncan wrote, “will save the parties — as well as public and private parties involved in similar disputes throughout the nation — enormous litigation costs as well as needless and divisive political controversy.”

The Supreme Court rejected those requests, apparently preferring to wait for a cleaner presentation of the issues in a different case.



Jury Secrecy Doesn’t Apply if Bias Taints Deliberations, Justices Rule


WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court ruled on Monday that courts must make an exception to the usual rule that jury deliberations are secret when evidence emerges that those discussions were marred by racial or ethnic bias.

“Racial bias implicates unique historical, constitutional and institutional concerns,” Justice Anthony M. Kennedy wrote for the majority in the 5-to-3 decision.

The case arose from statements made during jury deliberations in a 2010 sexual assault trial. “I think he did it because he’s Mexican, and Mexican men take whatever they want,” a juror said of the defendant, according to sworn statements from other jurors submitted by defense lawyers after the trial was over.

The juror, identified in court papers as H.C., was a former law enforcement officer. After the trial was over, two other jurors submitted sworn statements describing what he had said during deliberations. “He said that where he used to patrol, nine times out of 10 Mexican men were guilty of being aggressive toward women and young girls,” one juror recalled.

Those statements, Justice Kennedy wrote, warranted an investigation by the trial judge into deliberations that are ordinarily secret. Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan joined the majority opinion.

In dissent, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., joined by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Clarence Thomas, wrote that the majority opinion was a well intentioned but ill-considered intrusion into jurors’ privacy.

“This is a startling development,” Justice Alito wrote, “and although the court tries to limit the degree of intrusion, it is doubtful that there are principled grounds for preventing the expansion of today’s holding.”

Justice Kennedy wrote that the usual tools to root out biased jurors — questioning during jury selection and reports from jurors before they render a verdict — are less effective when race is at issue. Pointed questions about racism may exacerbate tensions, he wrote. And jurors may be reluctant, he added, to accuse one another of insensitivity.

“Not every offhand comment indicating racial bias or hostility will justify” an investigation into jurors’ deliberations, Justice Kennedy wrote. “For the inquiry to proceed, there must be a showing that one or more jurors made statements exhibiting overt racial bias that cast serious doubt on the fairness and impartiality of the jury’s deliberations and resulting verdict.”

In dissent, Justice Alito countered that it would be difficult to limit the sweep of the ruling. He added that the court’s constitutional analysis was flawed. “The real thrust of the majority opinion is that the Constitution is less tolerant of racial bias than other forms of juror misconduct, but it is hard to square this argument with the nature of the Sixth Amendment right on which petitioner’s argument and the court’s holding are based,” he wrote. “What the Sixth Amendment protects is the right to an ‘impartial jury.’ Nothing in the text or history of the amendment or in the inherent nature of the jury trial right suggests that the extent of the protection provided by the amendment depends on the nature of a jury’s partiality or bias.”

In earlier cases, the Supreme Court has said that even egregious misconduct in the jury room cannot be used to challenge a conviction if it would require jurors to testify about what was said there. Until Monday, though, the court had never confronted whether racial or ethnic prejudice requires an exception to the general rule.

In 1987, in Tanner v. United States, the Supreme Court let stand convictions in a mail fraud case in Florida even though the jury had treated the trial as “one big party” fueled by “rampant drug and alcohol abuse,” as one juror described it. During recesses, jurors drank pitchers of beer and liters of wine, and they used marijuana and cocaine.

Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, writing for the majority, said there were good reasons to ignore “irresponsible or improper juror behavior” if it was based on jurors’ accounts of what had gone on in the jury room.

After-the-fact challenges based on jurors’ testimony, she wrote, would make it less likely that jurors would speak candidly during deliberations. Allowing such challenges would encourage lawyers to harass former jurors, she said, and undermine the finality of verdicts.

In 2014, in Warger v. Shauers, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that jurors may not testify about what went on during deliberations, even to expose dishonesty during jury selection.

But Justice Sotomayor, writing for the court, suggested that cases involving racial bias might require a different result. “There may be cases of juror bias so extreme that, almost by definition, the jury trial right has been abridged,” she wrote. “If and when such a case arises, the court can consider whether the usual safeguards are or are not sufficient to protect the integrity of the process.”

Monday’s decision addressed the question the court had deferred in 2014.

Miguel Angel Peña Rodriguez, who maintains that he is innocent, was convicted of harassing and trying to grope two teenage sisters in a racetrack bathroom. A defense witness testified that Mr. Peña Rodriguez was elsewhere at the time of the assault.

H.C., the juror said to have made the biased statements, was not persuaded by that testimony, according to a fellow juror. “He said he did not think the alibi witness was credible because, among other things, he was ‘an illegal,’” the fellow juror said.

The jury deadlocked on the most serious charge, a felony, but convicted Mr. Peña Rodriguez of three misdemeanors. He was sentenced to two years’ probation.

In Monday’s decision in Peña Rodriguez v. Colorado, No. 15-606, Justice Kennedy said the justice system must root out racial bias.

“The progress that has already been made,” he wrote, “underlies the court’s insistence that blatant racial prejudice is antithetical to the functioning of the jury system and must be confronted in egregious cases.”

Justice Alito responded that the majority’s motives were admirable but misguided, citing the 1987 decision. “The court’s decision is well-intentioned,” he wrote. “It seeks to remedy a flaw in the jury trial system, but as this court said some years ago, it is questionable whether our system of trial by jury can endure this attempt to perfect it.”



Did the Supreme Court Base a Ruling on a Myth?


Last week at the Supreme Court, a lawyer made what seemed like an unremarkable point about registered sex offenders.

“This court has recognized that they have a high rate of recidivism and are very likely to do this again,” said the lawyer, Robert C. Montgomery, who was defending a North Carolina statute that bars sex offenders from using Facebook, Twitter and other social media services.

The Supreme Court has indeed said the risk that sex offenders will commit new crimes is “frightening and high.” That phrase, in a 2003 decision upholding Alaska’s sex offender registration law, has been exceptionally influential. It has appeared in more than 100 lower-court opinions, and it has helped justify laws that effectively banish registered sex offenders from many aspects of everyday life.

But there is vanishingly little evidence for the Supreme Court’s assertion that convicted sex offenders commit new offenses at very high rates. The story behind the notion, it turns out, starts with a throwaway line in a glossy magazine.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy’s majority opinion in the 2003 case, Smith v. Doe, cited one of his own earlier opinions for support, and that opinion did include a startling statistic. “The rate of recidivism of untreated offenders has been estimated to be as high as 80 percent,” Justice Kennedy wrote in the earlier case, McKune v. Lile.

He cited what seemed to be a good source for the statistic: “A Practitioner’s Guide to Treating the Incarcerated Male Sex Offender,” published in 1988 by the Justice Department.

The guide, a compendium of papers from outside experts, is 231 pages long, and it contains lots of statistics on sex offender recidivism rates. Many of them were in the single digits, some a little higher. Only one source claimed an 80 percent rate, and the guide itself said that number might be exaggerated.

The source of the 80 percent figure was a 1986 article in Psychology Today, a magazine written for a general audience. The article was about a counseling program run by the authors, and they made a statement that could be good for business. “Most untreated sex offenders released from prison go on to commit more offenses — indeed, as many as 80 percent do,” the article said, without evidence or elaboration.

That’s it. The basis for much of American jurisprudence and legislation about sex offenders was rooted in an offhand and unsupported statement in a mass-market magazine, not a peer-reviewed journal.

“Unfortunately,” Melissa Hamilton wrote in a new article in The Boston College Law Review, “the Supreme Court’s scientifically dubious guidance on the actual risk of recidivism that sex offenders pose has been unquestionably repeated by almost all other lower courts that have upheld the public safety need for targeted sex offender restrictions.”

The most detailed examination of how all of this came to pass was in a 2015 article in Constitutional Commentary by Ira Mark Ellman and Tara Ellman, who were harshly critical of the Supreme Court.

“Its endorsement has transformed random opinions by self-interested nonexperts into definitive studies offered to justify law and policy, while real studies by real scientists go unnoticed,” the authors wrote. “The court’s casual approach to the facts of sex offender re-offense rates is far more frightening than the rates themselves.”

There are many ways to calculate recidivism rates, and they vary depending on a host of distinctions. A 2014 Justice Department report found, for instance, that sex offenders generally have low overall recidivism rates for crimes. But they are more likely to commit additional sex offenses than other criminals.

In the three years after release from prison, 1.3 percent of people convicted of other kinds of crimes were arrested for sex offenses, compared to 5.3 percent of sex offenders. Those findings are broadly consistent with seven reports in various states, which found that people convicted of sex crimes committed new sex offenses at rates of 1.7 percent to 5.7 percent in time periods ranging from three to 10 years.

The Justice Department report said the risk of new sex offenses by convicted sex offenders rises over time, reaching 27 percent over 20 years.

That number is significant, but it is nothing like 80 percent. Perhaps it is sufficient to warrant harsh sex offender registry laws, but judges and lawmakers would have been better served by basing their judgments on the best available data.

Lower courts generally accept what the Supreme Court says. That is true not only about the law but also about facts subject to independent verification. Last year, though, the federal appeals court in Cincinnati gently suggested that the Supreme Court had taken a wrong turn in its 2003 decision in Smith v. Doe.

Judge Alice M. Batchelder, writing for a unanimous three-judge panel, described “the significant doubt cast by recent empirical studies on the pronouncement in Smith that ‘the risk of recidivism posed by sex offenders is “frightening and high.’”

The appeals court struck down a particularly strict Michigan sex-offender law as a violation of the Constitution’s ex post facto clause, saying it retroactively imposed punishment on people who had committed offenses before the law was enacted. The state has asked the Supreme Court to consider the case, Does v. Snyder, No. 16-768. The first paragraph of its petition says that the risk of recidivism “remains ‘frightening and high.’”

The constitutional question in the case is interesting and substantial. And hearing the case would allow the court to consider more fully its casual assertion that sex offenders are especially dangerous.



Donald Trump, François Fillon, Erdogan: Your Tuesday Briefing


Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• President Trump revised his travel ban, removing Iraq but leaving six other predominantly Muslim nations on a list of those whose citizens are barred from entering the U.S.

Officials said the rewrite was meant to address legal concerns quickly to deal with what they say is a national security threat. But in the Middle East, it is still seen as amounting to a ban on Muslims.

Separately, the White House said Mr. Trump “firmly believes” that former President Barack Obama had him wiretapped, though the F.B.I. director has said otherwise. Since Mr. Trump took office, he and Mr. Obama have criticized each other to an unusual degree.

_____

• Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives unveiled their long-awaited plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.

The bill would scrap the mandate for most Americans to have health insurance in favor of a new system of tax credits. But some Republican lawmakers have already expressed misgivings.

_____

• Top officials for the Republicans, the French center-right party, say they will continue to support François Fillon, the embattled presidential candidate.

Mr. Fillon got a reprieve earlier in the day when Alain Juppé, a prominent rival, said he had decided “once and for all” not to run. But some in the party still doubt that Mr. Fillon’s campaign can overcome corruption allegations stemming from his employment of family members.

_____

• Germany and Turkey are in an intensifying war of words about overseas campaign efforts for a Turkish referendum that would expand the powers of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

After two campaign rallies for Turks living in Germany were canceled over security concerns, Mr. Erdogan accused Berlin of using Nazi tactics. His critics say the Turkish president is defending his right to free speech in Europe, while denying it to dissident voices at home.

Analysts say relations could calm down after the referendum in April.

_____

• Nuclear concerns are on the rise.

In Europe, there is serious talk about using France’s arsenal to establish an E.U. nuclear weapons program.

And in South Korea, the United States has begun deploying an antimissile system, above, strongly opposed by China, a day after North Korea’s launch of four ballistic missiles. Japan is on heightened alert over North Korea’s capabilities, weighing whether it could be testing a “saturation attack” meant to overwhelm missile defenses.

_____

• When Wilbur L. Ross, the new U.S. commerce secretary, was vice chairman of the Bank of Cyprus, he was more interested in forcing out Russian board members than working with them.

• Two big British financial firms, Standard Life and Aberdeen Asset Management, have agreed to merge in a $4.7 billion deal that would create one of Europe’s largest asset managers.

• Turkey’s antitrust authority will look at whether Google unfairly promotes its app store and digital services by tying them to its Android operating system.

• Office values in central London could decline as much as 20 percent this year amid concerns over Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U.

• Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

• Members of Parliament called on the British government to tighten rules against dress codes that force women to wear high heels in the office. [The New York Times]

• A Russian lawmaker wants to ban the new Disney movie “Beauty and the Beast” over a scene with a gay character. [The New York Times]

• E.U. foreign and defense ministers reached a deal to create a military training headquarters, despite concerns about possible overlap with NATO. [The New York Times]

• The police in France are searching for the remains of a family of four after a relative confessed to killing them over an inheritance dispute. [BBC]

• Israel passed a law that prohibits entry to foreigners who publicly support an anti-Israel boycott. [Reuters]

• The U.S. government has opened a criminal investigation into a secret all-male Facebook group of Marines that shared thousands of naked and private photos of female colleagues. [The New York Times]

• Should supplements be a part of your morning routine? The science is still mostly lacking.

• Recipe of the day: Elegant mini almond cakes can be filled with cherry jam or, with a little effort, chocolate ganache.

• In the Galápagos, the blue-footed booby has no real predators, so the birds live proud, public lives. That has helped scientists learn their habits and even why the shade of their feet matters. (The color signals health.)

• The Dutch soccer clubs PSV Eindhoven and AZ Alkmaar are exploring whether cognitive training can improve players’ mental performance. Experts have their doubts.

• An apartment listed on Airbnb offered a prime location, luxurious appointments and a lot of security: It was inside Trump Tower in New York.

The U.S. Postal Service’s stamp issue this week pays homage to the federal arts program that launched some of the 20th century’s most famous American artists.

But it might not have.

In the mid-1930s, during the height of the Depression, unemployment was soaring at 25 percent. President Franklin D. Roosevelt created the Works Progress Administration to put Americans back to work.

Artists, who often didn’t have regular jobs in the first place, weren’t certain to be included. But Harry Hopkins, who directed the W.P.A., decided they should be.

“Hell,” he said, “they’ve got to eat just like other people!”

So the Federal Art Project of the W.P.A. was created. Over nine years, it spawned more than 100,000 paintings and murals and nearly 20,000 sculptures.

Some of the artists the program employed would later be among America’s most famous, including Jackson Pollock, Mark Rothko and Willem de Kooning.

“I changed my attitude toward being an artist,” de Kooning famously reminisced. “Instead of doing odd jobs and painting on the side, I painted and did odd jobs on the side.”

Evan Gershkovich contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.

Read the latest edition of the U.S. briefing here and the latest for Asia and Australia here.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.







‘The Daily’: ‘Hitting a Bullet With a Bullet’


Today we bring you two newly revealed stories about the transition of power from one president to the next.

One is a story of warning.

Another is a story of accusation.

On today’s episode:

• On Saturday, at 6:35 a.m., President Trump accused former President Barack Obama of wiretapping his communications. What led to this extraordinary, so-far-unproven claim?

• In his final days in office, Mr. Obama told Mr. Trump what he believed would be the single biggest threat Mr. Trump would inherit as president. David E. Sanger and William J. Broad have reported together on nuclear arms and missile defense for decades, and join us to discuss what Mr. Obama revealed to Mr. Trump.

Background reading:

• A conspiracy theory’s journey: How did an unfounded assertion on a radio show come to consume the president, the F.B.I., the Justice Department and the worldwide news media?

• Mr. Sanger’s and Mr. Broad’s story on the secret cyberwar against North Korea’s missiles that Mr. Trump inherited.

Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if that isn’t enough, we can even text.

If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.

On your iPhone or iPad:

Open the preloaded app called “Podcasts”; it has a purple icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link, which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type “The Daily.”)

Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free.

Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)

On your Android phone or tablet:

You can listen and subscribe using the free app RadioPublic, which is available worldwide. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link to play the latest episode and learn more about the app.

Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)

From a desktop or laptop:

Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.

On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:

Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”

On Google Home:

You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”







Inquiry Opens Into How 30,000 Marines Shared Illicit Images of Female Peers


Some photographs show female Marines posing topless in their dress uniform slacks, or with their camouflage blouses open, in pictures they thought would forever be secret. Others show private moments swiped from their personal social media sites.

In one photograph, surreptitiously taken in February, a female corporal from Camp Lejeune, in North Carolina, is shown bent over from behind. The image, once posted online, was flooded with derogatory comments, including suggestions that she should be raped.

Now the Defense Department has opened a criminal investigation and the Marine Corps is facing its latest unwanted controversy after it was revealed over the weekend that a secret online Facebook group of active-duty and veteran Marines shared thousands of naked and private photos of Marine Corps women.

The invitation-only group, called Marines United and made up of more than 30,000 active duty Marines and veterans, built online dossiers on Marine women without their knowledge or consent, listing dozens of women’s names, ranks, social media handles and where they are stationed.

The Marine Corps quickly condemned the all-male group, saying in a statement on Sunday that Marines United’s conduct “destroys morale, erodes trust and degrades the individual.” The Naval Criminal Investigation service has opened an investigation, and the Marine Corps said that any Marine who “directly participates in, encourages or condones” illicit activity could face court-martial. The Marine Corps declined to say how many Marines were being investigated.

The news of the group’s existence was first reported by a veteran’s news organization, The War Horse, on Saturday.

One of the victims of the group was Marisa Woytek, a Marine lance corporal serving at Camp Pendleton, who had photos taken from her Instagram account and posted to the group. She was alerted by friends and sent a screen shot.

“They were nothing scandalous, just me saying good morning,” Corporal Woytek said in an interview. “But the comments went just as far toward sexual assault and rape and degrading as your imagination can go.”

“I love the Marine Corps,” she added. “But after seeing that, I wouldn’t re-enlist.”

Several Marines said the Marines United postings are an evolution of a retaliatory practice called “make her famous.” Marines would share nude photographs of girlfriends or spouses they believed were cheating through text messages to a broad swath of people, encouraging them to forward the photos.

Jason Elsdon, a Marine in his early 40s, who said he was a member of Marines United and said he played no role in posting, organizing or disseminating the photographs, argued that people were overreacting. “It was just nudes,” he said. “I scrolled past it.” He added: “I don’t feel that it’s right, but I don’t feel that people should be utterly surprised that it is happening. There are other groups, and many are civilians, that are the same way.”

He defended the larger mission of the group and the web page, which is a grab bag of military news and humor, saying it provided needed support. He cited instances in which servicemen were contemplating suicide and the page would “light up” with people who wanted to help.

Though all military branches face problems with integrating women, the Marine Corps has perhaps the toughest challenge. Not only does it have the smallest proportion of women of all the services — 7 percent, compared with 14 percent in the Army — it also has the highest rate of sexual assault reports. Reforms also continually collide with a culture of ground-pounding infantry fighters that despite the efforts of some in the leadership, embrace a tradition of brawling, hard-drinking and sexual exploits.

“As Marines, we revel in all of it,” one online poster said in a debate on Reddit about the group, posted months before its existence was publicly revealed. “As a whole, Marines are a rough and tumble group of war dogs with a taste for the carnal things in life.”

But many Marines have pushed back against the idea that crude behavior is intrinsic to their identity.

“That is absolute nonsense,” said Maj. Clark Carpenter, a Marine Corps spokesman. “A true warrior carries himself with a sense of decency and compassion, but is always ready for the fight,” he said. “Those who hide in the dark corners of the internet with a shield of anonymity and purport to be warriors are nothing of the sort — they are nothing more than cowards.”

Still, the Marine Corps leadership has never fully rid the Corps of its rough ethos, and in recent years it has been hit with a number of scandals when this mentality broke into the open, including allegations that commanders retaliated against women who reported sexual assaults and recent reports that drill instructors hazed recruits, especially Muslims.

The Marine Corps is also the military branch that has put up the stiffest resistance to opening combat jobs to women, with several high-ranking Marines saying the move could hurt combat effectiveness. A small group of women joined combat units in January.

Women in the Marine Corps say the culture has been hostile to them for years.

“When I was in Iraq, I always carried a can of black spray paint to cover up what was written about me in the port-a-johns,” said Kate Hendricks Thomas, a Marine veteran who is now a professor of behavioral health at Charleston Southern University. “I tried to laugh it off, but the harassment is so pervasive that it can have a real effect.”

Marines United collected thousands of photos that appeared to be a mix of private photos shared by former partners and images taken from personal accounts. Some were photos of women clothed, and others in various states of undress, in civilian and military clothing, and often accompanied by a blizzard of lewd comments.

In September, a Marine veteran named John Albert was invited to join the site, and, disgusted by what he found, alerted Facebook.

“I have tons of friends who got killed in Afghanistan and have died since they came home. These types of actions dishonor their names and the entire Marine Corps,” Mr. Albert said in an interview.

Facebook took down the page temporarily for violating a ban on nudity after the complaint, Mr. Albert said, but the group apparently got around restrictions on nudity by shifting photos to a shared Google file.

Then on Saturday, a Marine veteran named Thomas Brennan, who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, where he was wounded by a rocket-propelled grenade, and later founded the nonprofit news site The War Horse, wrote about the group.

Marine Corps officials, alerted to the site by Mr. Brennan, contacted Google and had the files removed.

Since publishing the story, Mr. Brennan said he and his family had received death threats from members of the group. He charged that one member was offering “500 bucks for nudes” of Mr. Brennan’s wife and said he was “cooperating with multiple law enforcement agencies” regarding threats to him and his family.

“I’m no angel. I have deployed just like these Marines. I’ve sat around a fire in Afghanistan and shared that dark, dark Marine humor. In ways, that humor has healing properties. But this is different. It has gone too far,” he said. “We are hurting other Marines.”



The Downside of Ride-Hailing: More New York City Gridlock


When Uber arrived in New York City in 2011, subway ridership was soaring and the medallions required to drive a yellow cab were selling for a sky-high $1 million.

But Uber had an enticing offer: Your ride could appear at the touch of a button.

Six years later, Uber and other ride-hailing apps are booming, an army of nearly 50,000 licensed vehicles that ferry hundreds of thousands of people across the city every day.

Ride-hailing apps, like Uber and Lyft, are rapidly transforming transportation in New York, emerging as an existential threat to the taxi industry and siphoning passengers away from subways and buses, while raising concerns over worsening street congestion. They are also expanding quickly across the country, altering the travel landscape in places with poor public transit.

In New York — Uber’s largest United States market — yellow cab trips are dropping, while the use of ride-hailing services has skyrocketed to about 16 million passengers in October from about five million in June 2015, according to an independent report on ride-hailing apps. The price of a taxi medallion has plummeted, many drivers have abandoned cabs for ride-hailing services and taxis sit idle in garages.

Then came the news that subway ridership had dropped for the first time since 2009, even though the city’s population and the number of jobs keep increasing.

The price of a car pool ride with the apps can be as low as $5 — a fee that for many seems worth it when the alternative is spending $2.75 to use a century-old subway system plagued by rising delays.

“It’s hit a point where people are choosing to travel by ride-hailing because the subways have become intolerable,” said Thomas K. Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an urban policy group.

Subways and buses have absorbed much of the city’s growth in recent decades as subway ridership has hit levels not seen since the middle of the last century. But both have become less appealing — buses trapped in traffic, prolonged waits for trains, packed platforms and all-too-frequent mechanical breakdowns.

Patricia Martinez has switched from the bus to an app called Via. It is more comfortable, she said, and the $5 flat rate in most of Manhattan is not much more than the bus.

“I wouldn’t be able to afford to pay yellow taxis all the time,” said Ms. Martinez, who lives on the Upper East Side. “The price makes a difference, and the cars are very good.”

Lilja Owsley uses Lyft to travel late at night from her job at a wine bar in Chelsea to her home in Bushwick, Brooklyn. “I’d rather just take an Uber or Lyft instead of waiting for the L train for 10 or 15 minutes,” she said.

And while ride-hailing services predominantly serve Manhattan, they are spreading to parts of the city where public transit is limited and taxis are scarce.

Yao Kou, a 27-year-old student, lives on the East Side of Manhattan, but is several blocks from the nearest subway stop, so she takes Uber or Lyft when she is in a rush. “I want to avoid walking a long distance to the subway station,” she said.

But the proliferation of ride-hailing vehicles appears to be contributing to increasingly gridlocked streets. Average travel speeds in the heart of Manhattan dropped to about 8.1 miles per hour last year, down about 12 percent from 2010, according to city data.

Subway service must become more competitive because it is unsustainable for the city to grow by adding more vehicles, said Bruce Schaller, a former senior transportation official for the city who prepared the report on ride-hailing services.

“This is a wake-up call that action is needed now to deal with delays, crowding and a host of problems that people experience every day on the transit system,” he said.

A spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the agency that runs the city’s subways and buses, said it was working to modernize the system and improve service.

With frustration over congestion rising, Mayor Bill de Blasio has promised a comprehensive traffic plan in the coming weeks, though he may be reluctant to confront Uber after the uproar he faced in 2015 when he tried to cap its number of vehicles. He ultimately backed down.

The city’s transportation commissioner, Polly Trottenberg, said her agency was working to assess the impact of ride-hailing services.

“There’s no question they have provided a convenient new service and a lot of people are making use of them,” she said. “But I think there’s also no question that if they continue to grow in popularity and add a lot of new car trips to the streets, we have to look at the externalities, which could include congestion, lower air quality, reduced safety or declining transit usage.”

The largest ride-hailing apps in New York — Uber, Lyft and Via — and their supporters said there were many reasons for the growing congestion, including construction, truck deliveries and thick pedestrian traffic. The companies said they actually reduced congestion through more efficient use of streets and considered themselves a supplement rather than a substitute for public transportation.

“Lyft’s goal is to replace private car ownership, not transit, walking or biking,” said Adrian Durbin, a Lyft spokesman.

Still, ride-booking services are succeeding at the expense of others. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has taken a hit to its budget because it receives financing from a 50-cent surcharge on taxi trips. Officials say the shift from taxis to Uber and other apps has cost the authority about $28 million since 2014.

The Citizens Budget Commission, an independent watchdog, has also questioned whether New York can still count on the $1.2 billion in revenue it expects to collect from the future sale of taxi medallions, because their value has sunk.

Nicole Gelinas, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, said ride-hailing apps were able to lure riders with artificially low prices because they were subsidized by an influx of cash by investors. The apps have made it easier for people to travel by the “most inefficient mode of transportation possible,” she said.

Many transportation experts support a plan to reduce congestion by charging drivers to enter the core of Manhattan. Other cities, like London, have put such congestion pricing in place, and former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg pushed unsuccessfully in 2008 for a similar proposal.

Pickups by ride-hailing apps in New York are concentrated in Manhattan below the area around 96th Street — about 56 percent, according to Mr. Schaller’s report. About 22 percent of trips start in the rest of Manhattan and nearby neighborhoods, like Williamsburg in Brooklyn and Long Island City in Queens. Neighborhoods farther from Manhattan account for about 19 percent of trips, and just over 3 percent of pickups are at the city’s two major airports, La Guardia and Kennedy International.

Andrew Salzberg, who oversees transportation policy and research for Uber, said about 33 percent of total Uber pickups started and ended in boroughs outside Manhattan.

Despite their appeal, the apps have faced a wave of criticism, including concerns over wheelchair accessibility and driver pay. Uber has also been rocked by a series of problems in recent weeks, prompting many users to delete its app. The company was accused of trying to profit during airport protests against President Trump’s first immigration order and criticized over sexual harassment claims by a former engineer. And accusations surfaced recently about a tool Uber was said to have used to deceive the authorities in several cities and countries.

Other cities have struggled to regulate the growth of ride-hailing services. Uber left Austin, Tex., last year after losing a ballot measure over regulations, but that was an exception — ride-hailing apps operate in over 300 communities, and some cities are actually partnering with the services. In Summit, N.J., officials began a commuter program offering free or discounted Uber rides to a New Jersey Transit station instead of building more parking.

Some transit officials view the apps as an ally in their efforts to persuade urban dwellers to resist car ownership. People who use Uber and Lyft often were more likely to use public transportation, according to a study last year by the American Public Transportation Association that examined seven cities, including Washington and Boston.

“We’ve seen that it’s been a symbiotic relationship between public transit and these tech-enabled services,” said Darnell Grisby, director of policy for the association.

But in New York, where fewer than half of residents have a car, people have long relied on public transit and yellow cabs, and many are using the apps to replace those transportation modes.

For William Prince, who lives in Brooklyn, price is all that matters. He uses whichever app is offering the best promotion, especially when the subway is unreliable. The F and G trains have been “kind of a nightmare” recently, he said. “Usually the cost benefit is it’s worth the money to avoid the hassle.”



Activists Rush to Save Government Science Data — If They Can Find It


As the presidential inauguration drew near in January, something bordering on panic was taking hold among some scientists who rely on the vast oceans of data housed on government servers, which encompass information on everything from social demographics to satellite photographs of polar ice.

In a Trump administration that has made clear its disdain for the copious evidence that human activity is warming the planet, researchers feared a broad crusade against the scientific information provided to the public. Reports last week that the administration is proposing deep budget cuts for government agencies including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency have fueled new fears of databases being axed, if only as a cost-saving measure.

“We’ll probably be saying goodbye to much of the invaluable data housed at the NCEI,” Anne Jefferson, a water hydrology professor at Kent State University, wrote on Twitter Saturday, referring to the National Centers for Environmental Information. “Hope it gets rescued in time.”

It is illegal to destroy government data, but agencies can make it more difficult to find by revising websites and creating other barriers to the underlying information.

Already there have been a handful of changes to the websites of federal science agencies, according to the Environmental Data and Governance Initiative, a new organization with researchers monitoring the content. On the E.P.A.’s website, for instance, the science and technology office had described as its mission the development of “scientific and technological foundations to achieve clean water.” Now the office says the goal is to develop “economically and technologically achievable performance standards.”

Pie charts on a Department of Energy website illustrating the link between coal and greenhouse gas emissions also have disappeared. So has the description on an Interior Department page of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on federal land.

Changes like these appear only to reflect the publicly stated priorities of the new administration and there have been few signs as yet that federal databases are being systematically manipulated or restricted.

But concern about the vulnerability of scientific information has also focused attention on a nonpartisan problem of digital-age government: Much of the scientific information so painstakingly collected over the decades, at a cost of hundreds of billions of dollars, remains held only by the government, scattered on thousands of servers in hundreds of departments where it may not be backed up and could be impossible to find.

As thousands of academics, librarians, coders and science-minded citizens have gathered at what are called “data rescue” events in recent weeks — there were at least six this past weekend alone — the enormousness of extracting government data that is easily found has become apparent, as has the difficulty in tracking down the rest.

Some open-data activists refer to it as “dark data” — and they are not talking about classified information or data the government might release only if compelled by a Freedom of Information Act request.

“It’s like dark matter; we know it must be there but we don’t know where to find it to verify,” said Maxwell Ogden, the director of Code for Science and Society, a nonprofit that began a government-data archiving project in collaboration with the research libraries in the University of California system.

“If they’re going to delete something, how will we even know it’s deleted if we didn’t know it was there?” he asked.

The obstacles have spurred debate among open-data activists over how to build an archiving system for the government’s science data that ensures that the public does not lose access to it, regardless of who is in power.

“No one would advocate for a system where the government stores all scientific data and we just trust them to give it to us,” said Laurie Allen, a digital librarian at the University of Pennsylvania who helped found Data Refuge. “We didn’t used to have that system, yet that is the system we have landed with.”

At the moment, the closest thing to a central repository is Data.gov, which, under a 2013 Obama administration directive, is supposed to link to all of the public databases within the government. But it relies on agencies to self-report, and the total size of all the data linked to by the directory, Mr. Ogden recently found, comes to just 40 terabytes — about as much as would fit on $1,000 worth of hard drives.

NASA alone provides access to more than 17.5 petabytes of archived data, according to its website (a petabyte is 1,000 times bigger than a terabyte), over dozens of different data portal systems.

And one-third of the links on Data.gov, Mr. Ogden found, take users to a website rather than the actual data, which makes it hard to devise software that can automatically copy it.

Even databases that are listed on Data.gov — and there are more than two million, according to Mr. Ogden’s published logs — often sit behind an interface designed for ease of use but built with proprietary code almost impossible to reproduce.

The need to write custom code to extract data from, say, the E.P.A.’s discharge monitoring reports is one reason that, despite having hosted more than two dozen “data rescue” events since January, the activist group Data Refuge lists only 158 data sets in its public directory.

Andrew Bergman, a graduate student in applied physics at Harvard, along with two physics department colleagues, suspended his studies to help found the Environmental Data and Governance Initiative, which has also helped to organize the events.

“We have things that are considered really important from NASA, E.P.A., NOAA,” Mr. Bergman said. “But in terms of finalized, completed data sets that are actually useful, it’s a very small number compared to the total.”

The transition to digital distribution that made government documents more accessible, librarians say, has also left them more at risk. Without physical copies in libraries, the internet’s promise of making government information more widely available has made it far more centralized.

Except when certain data is the subject of a lawsuit or multiple F.O.I.A. requests, it remains unclear what compels an agency to keep it online.

“Destroying federal records is a crime,” said Patrice McDermott, who heads a public advocacy organization called Open the Government. “Taking them off of the internet does not have the same penalty.”

In a recent letter to the federal Office of Management and Budget, Ms. McDermott’s group cited a clause in the 1995 Paperwork Reduction Act that requires agencies to “provide adequate notice when initiating, substantially modifying, or terminating significant information dissemination products.”

But what that means for the age of big data has not been defined.

To make secure copies of government research that researchers can trust is no easy task, librarians say. But many of those who have been trying for years to find funding and a system to do it reliably hope to harness the current wave of interest.

“At the moment, more people than ever are aware of the risk of relying solely on the government to preserve its own information,’’ two government document librarians, James A. Jacobs, of the University of California, San Diego, and James R. Jacobs of Stanford University, wrote in an essay circulated online last week. “This was not true even six months ago.’’

At the archiving events, participants are typically divided into groups. One uses a web browser extension to flag government web addresses for the Internet Archive, an existing service that operates an automated “web crawler” that can make copies of federal websites but typically not the databases that store information in more exotic formats.

Another group is tasked with scrutinizing data sets that researchers have identified as particularly useful or vulnerable. Those are “tagged” with a description of where they came from and what they are.

At one of last month’s events, at New York University, many marveled at the breadth and depth of the research they were sorting through, even as they worried about its future.

“Look, you can get temperature and salinity readings from any one of these buoys,’’ said Barbara Thiers, the vice president for science at the New York Botanical Garden, another participant. “This is the raw data for tracking ocean warming.’’



On Galápagos, Revealing the Blue-Footed Booby’s True Colors


NORTH SEYMOUR ISLAND, Galápagos — The birds move with comic grace, like Fred Astaire and Judy Garland as hobo swells in oversize shoes. The male faces the female and slowly, slowly lifts up one foot, sets it down and lifts the other. Check out my feet! They’re blue. Really, really blue.

The female mirrors his ponderous moves. Mine are blue, too. Is this ground sticky, or what? 

He leans over, spreads his wings wide, points his bill at the sky and whistles breathily, as if blowing on a toy flute. She grunts and totters up to him, and they clack bills. He grabs a pebble, and they clack bills again; he drops the pebble and spears a twig. Clack, whistle, grunt, whistle. And suddenly, she backs away.

Desperate, the male solemnly starts high-stepping again, displaying his beautiful teal-blue feet. But the courtship has fizzled, and when the female again lifts up a foot in response, it looks as if she’s waving goodbye.

It’s dating time here for the blue-footed booby. Everywhere, dozens of times a day, the large, handsome seabirds are making their highly ritualized courtship display — one reason the boobies are among the most celebrated and beloved residents of this archipelago.

They are also feeding voraciously and spectacularly, circling high over the water, alert for the slightest flicker of fish, and then freezing in midair for a fraction of a second before dropping headfirst onto their targets, like missiles falling from a plane.

They squabble with one another over territory and nesting sites. They dodge parasitic frigate birds with red-balloon crops that pluck at the boobies’ tails and try to force them to regurgitate freshly caught fish but mostly fail.

On the Galápagos and on Isla Isabel, a Mexican national park south of the coast of Baja, blue-footed boobies have no real predators to fear or human hunters to shun, and as a result they live proud, public lives. That openness and accessibility, beyond captivating tourists, have proved a bonanza for scientists, too.

Research teams from Mexico and the United States have followed populations of the long-lived birds for years, even decades, and they have gathered a wealth of insights into the deep nature of being Sula nebouxii: how boobies choose and lose mates, the shifting allure of fidelity versus adultery, the measured brutality of older siblings, the contingency of parental love and the reason behind the boobies’ fetish for feet.

“They’re superfascinating animals and such a good research model,” said David J. Anderson of Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C., who studies both the blue-footed booby and the related Nazca booby. “They let you move among them without minding too much. You try to do that with a continental bird or mammal — forget about it. But with these guys you see it all.”

In one discovery that subverted expectations, Oscar Sánchez Macouzet and Hugh Drummond of the National Autonomous University of Mexico and their colleagues determined that boobies subjected to severe bullying and abuse as nestlings suffered few consequences as adults.

No matter how relentlessly the birds had been pecked at and bitten by older siblings, no matter how often food had been snatched from their beaks or how slowly they had grown, on reaching maturity the once-persecuted birds proved surprisingly confident, capable — unflappable. They were able to attract partners, repel rivals and raise families as successfully as their domineering peers.

“Bullying in infancy does not make wimpy adults,” Dr. Sánchez Macouzet said.

While many boobies change partners from season to season, there are great benefits of long-term fidelity, researchers have found. Comparing the breeding success of pairs that had been together for years with that of similarly mature boobies that had recently repartnered, scientists determined that the established pairs reared 35 percent more offspring to fledglinghood compared with the new mates.

And in new findings that will be published soon — and are enough to turn this working mother’s feet cerulean — scientists have discovered that the key to a successful long-term booby partnership is the equitable sharing of nest duties year after year.

Biparental care is the rule among boobies, but longtime mates have perfected the art of symmetry and turn-taking. They spend the same time brooding and feeding the young, and expend the same physical effort as seen in measures of blood cells and body mass.

Such egalitarian couples, said Dr. Sánchez Macouzet, “have reached the sweet spot of cooperation, compatibility and a willingness to avoid the exploitation of your partner.”

Dr. Drummond and his colleagues have also identified another booby mating pattern that seems to work nearly as well as a stable long-term partnership and in some ways contradicts it: the May-December effect.

For reasons that remain mysterious, Dr. Drummond said, booby couples in which one bird is young and the other old often have greater breeding success compared with pairs of the same age.

Analyzing the outcomes of 3,361 booby offspring, the researchers found that the chicks of age-mismatched parents were significantly more likely to later become parents themselves compared with the progeny of similarly aged pairs. It didn’t matter whether the mother was younger than the father or vice versa.

“The advantage to the chicks was the same either way,” Dr. Drummond said.

“Life is complicated,” he added, “and every year boobies are conjuring with several different variables when making their choice among partners.”

Someone familiar? Someone new? Nonnegotiable: The feet must be blue.

Blue-footed boobies are members of the family Sulidae, a group that includes about 10 species of gannets and boobies and is, by some analyses, part of the larger pelican order. The name booby is thought to come from bobo, the Spanish word for stupid or clown, a reference to the bird’s awkward waddle.

Blue-footed boobies can be found throughout the tropics and subtropics of the eastern Pacific. Though their overall population is not considered endangered, their numbers on the Galápagos have fallen since the 1990s, the result, scientists believe, of a local decline in the sardine stocks that the boobies need to breed.

The birds are about the size of large sea gulls, with wingspans up to five feet. Adult females are about 20 percent to 30 percent heavier and stronger than males. Boobies stay close to home, and if given the chance, most will live and breed within a few dozen feet of where they were born.

They often hunt small, schooling fish in flocks, each hitting the water at 60 miles per hour, its brain protected by specialized air sacs in the skull.

In many birds, males are the fancy ones, their exaggerated, colorful features the result of generations of females’ expressing their whimsical tastes in mates. Among blue-footed boobies, by contrast, males and females are both choosy about their partners, and one of the traits they fixate on is the relative blue-ness of a partner’s feet.

The optimal color, it turns out, is more of a turquoise.

Analyzing the booby’s blue feet, researchers have determined that the color is a result of both structural and pigmental components. The basic tone, a flat, purplish-blue, is set by an alignment of proteins stacked in the skin like spaghetti in a box that preferentially encage and emphasize blue light.

But the birds’ bodies modify that basic blue through diet, extracting bright yellow pigment from carotenoids in the fish they consume and concentrating it in their feet to create a dazzling aquamarine. Researchers have found that booby eyes are keenly sensitive to blue-green light, and for good reason: Foot tone turns out to be a revealing sign of health and hardiness.

In a series of experiments, Roxana Torres of National Autonomous University and Alberto Velando of the University of Vigo in Spain and their colleagues showed that male boobies’ feet turned drab after just 48 hours of food deprivation and brightened again when feeding resumed. The injection of diphtheria vaccine could also dull a booby’s feet, by directing dietary carotenoids away from the skin and over to the newly taxed immune system.

Males avoid mating with females whose feet has been dulled with paint, the researchers also discovered. And when a male’s feet are artificially dulled after his mate has laid one egg, the female responds to the apparent decline in his condition through a downsizing of her own, making her second egg smaller than the first.

The calculus of daily life never stops. Boobies generally lay two eggs several days apart, and the older chick ends up with an enormous advantage over the second-born. In some booby species, like the Nazca, the difference is fatal.

“The big one up and kills the little one, pushing it right out of the nest,” Dr. Anderson said. The only hope for the second-born is if its sibling dies.

Among blue-footed boobies, though, sibling violence is provisional. As long as the parents can regurgitate enough food for both, the older, bigger sibling tolerates the second hatchling.

It will peck at the younger bird and demand chronic displays of submissive behavior, like facing away with its bill tucked down, but in good times it will let its sibling live.

Should the body mass of the elder nestling decline to 80 percent of normal, however, “it will increase the daily pecking of its sibling by 500 percent,” Dr. Drummond said. The heightened abuse can be fatal.

Just make it through your miserable childhood, beta booby, and you’ll soon be high-stepping in style.



Snakes, a Life of Crime and Eventually Two Murder Charges


Sometimes Kwa would step outside without a shirt on and a huge snake wrapped around his neck. It was, one neighbor said, “the size of a banister running down a five-step stoop.” At other times, another neighbor said, he wore contact lenses that made his eyes look like the eyes of a snake.

Kwauhuru Govan was a moody man, according to those who knew him: a good father who used to play with his two young children at their home in Bushwick, Brooklyn, but was prone to crime and violence.

From age 18, court records show, he was in and out of trouble with the law — and in and out of prison. His offenses were both large and small: Once, in Prospect Park, he was caught by the police with an illegal ninja star weapon in his pocket. A few years later, he was sentenced to a three-year prison term for committing armed robbery at a Central Florida deli.

But it was in his cell in Florida that Mr. Govan, a tall, fit man of 38, found himself accused of his most serious crime: the 13-year-old murder of a teenage girl from Bushwick whose body he was said to have dumped in an alley, naked, bruised and stuffed inside laundry bags. And that accusation, made this fall, led quickly to another: that one year later he had also killed a 19-year-old man from the same Brooklyn neighborhood and spread parts of his decapitated body in trash bags in a subway station and a recycling plant.

At a news conference last week detailing these charges, a police official said that Mr. Govan, who is now in custody in Brooklyn, might be a serial killer and that the department’s Cold Case Squad was looking for links between him and unsolved murders in Florida, California and New York.

Mr. Govan did not react well to the charges. When he appeared on Feb. 22 for an arraignment in State Supreme Court, he refused to be fingerprinted by administrative workers. A dozen court officers had to haul him into the room by his arms and legs, hoisting him off the floor — in handcuffs and shackles — as he hollered to reporters that he was being “railroaded.”

Mr. Govan and both victims — Sharabia Thomas, 17, and Rashawn Brazell, 19 — lived within blocks of one another on Gates Avenue, which runs on an east-west axis through Bedford-Stuyvesant before turning slightly north through the heart of central Bushwick.

On Feb. 11, 2004, Ms. Thomas left her family’s home at 995 Gates Avenue and disappeared while heading to class at the EBC High School. Shortly after 4 p.m. that day, the police found her body in the laundry bags in an alley near Palmetto Street. Investigators said she had been choked, suffered blunt force trauma to her head and had marks on her wrists suggesting that she had been tied up.

Almost exactly one year later, Mr. Brazell, a fashion-conscious teenager who designed and made his own clothes, disappeared from his family’s home at 1091 Gates Avenue. The following day, the trash bags with parts of his dismembered body were found in two locations: the Nostrand Avenue A station and a recycling plant in Greenpoint a few miles away.

At that point, Mr. Govan was living at 1104 Gates Avenue, and while there is no evidence that he knew Ms. Thomas well, Mr. Brazell was often at his house with friends, according to a person who was close to Mr. Govan at the time and declined to be identified.

In an interview with prosecutors introduced as evidence in his case, Mr. Govan claimed to be a Jehovah’s Witness and said he attended Mr. Brazell’s funeral. But he also said that he was in St. Louis learning to drive a truck when the murder occurred and never spent time with the young man, whom he described as “an abomination” because he was “gay.”

For more than a decade, the murders of Ms. Thomas and Mr. Brazell remained unsolved. During that period, Mr. Govan’s marriage dissolved into unfaithfulness and violence, according to the person who was close to him. He was also violent toward people in his neighborhood, this person said, drawing a gun on at least two occasions on those who lived around him.

“He liked to have this power over people and have people afraid of him,” the person added. “And even people on the block were very afraid of him.”

Though his first arrest occurred in 1996, when he was sentenced to 30 days in a juvenile facility for an unspecified grand larceny, over the years, a pattern emerged. In 2008, while working as a technician for a security company called Peace of Mind Technologies, Mr. Govan pleaded guilty to stealing digital cameras from a Brooklyn Y.M.C.A. Six years later, while working as a maintenance man at a power plant in Oroville, Calif., he stole equipment from his job and was caught while trying to pawn it.

Matt Taylor, the prosecutor who handled the case in California, said that when Mr. Govan was confronted by the authorities, he claimed to be schizophrenic. “He put his head in hands and said, ‘Oh no, I hope it didn’t happen again,’ ” Mr. Taylor recalled. “He said he had a split-personality disorder. He came off as kind of a strange guy.”

It was, of all things, a third cold murder case in Brooklyn that provided detectives with their big break in the unsolved killings of Ms. Thomas and Mr. Brazell.

In June, the Brooklyn district attorney’s office held a news conference to announce that it was charging a Brooklyn man, at that point imprisoned in the Caribbean, in the murder of Chanel Petro-Nixon. Ms. Petro-Nixon, 16, had disappeared on Father’s Day in 2006 while on her way to a job interview at an Applebee’s restaurant not far from her home in Bedford-Stuyvesant. Four days later, her body was discovered, partly clothed and strangled, in a trash bag on the street outside her building.

The suspect, Veron Primus, was already in custody on the island of St. Vincent in an unrelated murder case. Within days of his being charged, the prosecutors and the Cold Case Squad renewed their efforts to investigate other unsolved killings of young Brooklyn women for links to him. As part of their investigation, they tested clippings from Ms. Thomas’s fingernails, which had been saved as evidence. The fingernails contained someone else’s DNA, and when investigators ran that sample through a national criminal database, they found a match — not to Mr. Primus, but to Mr. Govan.

The match was made because Mr. Govan was, at that point, in prison for the Florida armed robbery. Detectives from the Cold Case Squad traveled to Florida to interview him, and while it remains unclear what Mr. Govan said, prosecutors charged him in November with killing Ms. Thomas.

Once they had Mr. Govan in custody, the authorities said they realized that he had lived across the street from Mr. Brazell and began to look for connections to that killing. One piece of evidence emerged, prosecutors said: Investigators were able to connect Mr. Govan with a bag found in 2005 in the subway station that still bore traces of Mr. Brazell’s blood.

Within weeks of that discovery, an indictment was returned against him in Mr. Brazell’s murder, but Justice Neil Firetog was unable to arraign him on the charge because he refused to have his fingerprints taken. This led to the explosive courtroom episode, in which Mr. Govan ranted that he been assaulted by his guards. Justice Firetog eventually issued an order permitting corrections officials to take Mr. Govan’s prints by any means necessary.

Last week, with his fingerprints finally obtained, Mr. Govan reappeared in court and pleaded not guilty to killing Mr. Brazell. He was calmer, but no less bizarre. Entering the courtroom, he looked directly at Mr. Brazell’s mother, Desire, who was sitting there. “You know I love you,” he said to her.



Though Divided, Jury Delivers Guilty Verdict in Murder of Police Officer


After four days of difficult deliberations, a jury in Manhattan found a small-time drug dealer guilty on Monday of murdering a police officer during a desperate flight from a gunfight with other gang members in October 2015.

The man, Tyrone Howard, 32, sat stone-faced as the jury foreman announced that he had been convicted of aggravated first-degree homicide for the shooting death of Officer Randolph Holder, a charge carrying a mandatory sentence of life without parole. Three of the jurors were in tears as they confirmed the verdict, which came only two hours after they sent the judge a note saying they were deadlocked on some charges.

Officer Holder’s father, Randolph Holder Sr., nodded as the verdict was read, and as Mr. Howard was pronounced guilty for every charge in a long list that included robbery and criminal possession of a weapon, Mr. Holder removed his glasses and dabbed tears from his eyes. His wife, Princess, cried beside him.

The courtroom was packed with dozens of police officers and their union leaders, who had been there every day of the deliberations in a show of support for their fallen comrade. Several hugged Mr. Holder as Mr. Howard was led out in handcuffs.

After the verdict was read, the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., shook hands with and embraced the president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, Patrick J. Lynch, who said, “Well done.”

Outside, Mr. Vance thanked the jury for “a decision that I think is both thoughtful and comports with fairness and justice in this case.”

“This is a tragic case and a sad day, but we can’t thank our police officers enough for putting their lives on the line every day,” Mr. Vance said. “This case reinforces the importance of what illegal guns mean to New York City and the danger they put our city in, as well as our officers.”

During a monthlong trial, prosecutors presented evidence that Mr. Howard was involved in a gunfight that broke out at 8:30 p.m. between rival gang members on 102nd Street in East Harlem on Oct. 20, 2015. He dropped a backpack and fled up the promenade toward 120th Street, stealing a bicycle along the way, according to prosecutors.

Thirteen minutes later, at 120th Street, he ran into Officer Holder and his partner that day, Officer Omar Wallace, on a desolate ramp leading to a footbridge over Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive. The officers were in plainclothes but had their badges showing.

Officer Wallace testified that he recognized Mr. Howard as he came up the ramp on a bicycle because he had arrested him for smoking marijuana the year before. Officer Wallace said he shouted, “Hey!” at the defendant. Mr. Howard jumped off the bike, produced a gun and fired it, hitting Officer Holder in the head, Officer Wallace said. Officer Wallace said he then returned fire.

Mr. Howard, who was wounded in the buttocks, fled and was arrested four blocks north. Police divers soon found the .40-caliber Glock pistol used to kill the officer in the river.

During her summations last week, the lead prosecutor, Linda Ford, methodically laid out the evidence from more than two dozen witnesses, surveillance cameras and 911 calls. She argued that Mr. Howard knew the two men approaching him were police officers because the area was swarming with officers and he was on the run from another shooting. She said he purposely shot Officer Holder to escape capture.

But Mr. Howard’s lawyer, Michael Hurwitz, argued that the prosecution had not proved Mr. Howard knew the men coming toward him were police officers, which is required for the aggravated first-degree murder charge. “We know it was dark,” Mr. Hurwitz said. “We know it was quick, and we know the police officers are in civilian clothes.”

Mr. Hurwitz also contended that Officer Wallace made a mistake when he identified Mr. Howard as the gunman. He pointed out that it was a dark night and that the light on the ramp was dim. It was unlikely, he said, that the officer could recognize someone he had arrested only once, 14 months earlier, under those conditions. “People make mistakes,” he said.

On Monday afternoon, the jurors sent a note to the judge saying they could not come to an agreement on some charges. That note came after several others asking, among other things, for the definition of reasonable doubt and to hear the testimony of Officer Wallace again. The judge, Justice Michael J. Obus, told them to keep deliberating, and they reached a verdict at 5 p.m.

As they left the courthouse, the jurors declined to say what the sticking points had been but said the deliberations had been extremely difficult, with a few jurors unconvinced of Mr. Holder’s guilt on some charges.

“In a way it was like ‘Twelve Angry Men’ in reverse,” said Jane Ritter, a retired schoolteacher on the panel who wept during the verdict.

Another juror, Alfred Berneti, a bartender, said the jury had been deeply divided at points, without giving details. “There were some hard-core opinions, but we respected the fact that we had different opinions,” he said. “We just wanted to do what was right and follow the semantics and the law.”



U.S. Frees Visa-Holding Afghan Family It Detained for 4 Days


SANTA ANA, Calif. — After more than four days in detention, five members of an Afghan family with special immigrant visas were released on Monday, allowing them to travel to the Washington town where they intend to settle.

The father had worked for the American government in Afghanistan for a decade and received the visas based on his work.

Federal officials said that they would meet with the family on April 5 to review their visa documents and that they would be free without “any limitation of their liberties” until then.

“This is a real victory in terms of the government acknowledging that the family does not pose a threat,” said Mark Rosenbaum, a lawyer with Public Counsel, who helped with the case. “But we should have never had to go to federal court to make this happen. This is not a way to thank someone for their service.”

Although the family had completed extensive vetting to receive the visas, Border Patrol officials stopped them on Thursday when they arrived at Los Angeles International Airport, sending the father to a separate detention center from his wife and three children.

The family’s release came just hours before a hearing before Judge Josephine L. Staton of Federal District Court. The judge issued a temporary restraining order Saturday night to prevent the mother and children from being sent to a family detention center in Texas and scheduled Monday’s hearing to discuss the case further.

Although the family’s lawyers pressed Judge Staton to force federal officials to complete the visa inspection immediately, she declined to do so, saying that it was not clear whether the court had the authority and whether it was in the family’s best interest.

Judge Staton ruled that the federal government must notify the court and the family’s lawyers 72 hours before making any change in their case and asked for a report after the April 5 interview.

Lawyers for the family say the father worked at an American military base in Kabul for about 10 years and was repeatedly a target of violence by the Taliban or other Afghan rebels. Lawyers have not released the names, citing potential danger for the family, which includes three sons aged 7 years old, 6 years old and 8 months old.

It remains unclear why Customs and Border Protection agents stopped the family when they arrived. While the father was in detention, officials confiscated his computer and other personal belongings, according to court documents. The family members were released on Monday with their visas and Afghan passports, lawyers for the government said in court.

Joseph Carilli, a lawyer with the Department of Justice, told Judge Staton that a visa did not guarantee entry into the country and that the federal government retains the right to question immigrants further upon arrival.

Special Immigrant Visas were created by Congress for Iraqi and Afghan citizens who help the United States military and government, work that frequently makes them targets in their home countries. Lawyers and advocates for refugees said they had never heard of a case of an immigrant with such a visa being detained in the United States.

“The government here swung and missed,” said Robert Blume, a lawyer with Gibson Dunn, who argued the case in court on Monday. “They should be saying, ‘We made a mistake, thank you and be on your way.’ Nothing about this process has been normal.”



Turkish Referendum Has Country Trading Barbs With Germany Over Free Speech


BERLIN — Germany and Turkey have been locked in an intensifying war of words over the past week, as campaigning heats up before an April referendum in Turkey on a new Constitution that would expand the powers of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Mr. Erdogan, whose critics cast him as ever more authoritarian, badly wants a victory in the vote. With the referendum on a knife-edge, he and members of his Justice and Development Party, known as A.K.P., are desperate to campaign in Germany among the 1.5 million Turks who are eligible to vote.

“There is a need for the A.K.P. to secure as many votes as possible from the Turks living in Germany — that’s the basic ingredient,” said Marc Pierini, a former European Union ambassador to Turkey and a scholar at Carnegie Europe, a Brussels-based think tank.

“The yes vote is now in jeopardy, therefore votes in Germany are of course very important,” he added.

But the campaign has put Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government in a deeply awkward position. Mr. Erdogan’s opponents in Germany, both Turkish and German, say the president wants to use the freedoms of Western democracy to further consolidate his anti-democratic powers at home, and they accuse him and his men of using their right to free speech in Germany while denying it in Turkey.

Of particular concern to Germany is a German-Turkish journalist, Deniz Yucel, who turned himself in last month, was held for 13 days and last week was ordered held indefinitely, with the Turkish authorities — including Mr. Erdogan himself — labeling him a terrorist.

Mr. Erdogan and his supporters have jailed tens of thousands of people they claim supported a failed military coup against him last July. Turkey jailed more journalists than any other country in 2016, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists.

But both sides are now accusing each other of stifling free speech, with Turkish officials charging that they are being blocked from campaigning in Germany.

Two Turkish ministers campaigning in Germany on Mr. Erdogan’s behalf scrapped rallies last week after local German authorities said they could not guarantee security. Germany’s federal government has denied intervening in any way.

On Sunday, Mr. Erdogan accused Berlin of using Nazi tactics and threatened to stir a revolt if he decided to go to Germany himself and was somehow prevented from entering. (He previously campaigned in Germany in 2008, 2011 and 2014.)

“Some friends talked about fascism,” Mr. Erdogan said at a dinner event in Istanbul. “I was thinking that fascism is over in Germany, but it is still ongoing. It is ongoing, obviously.”

Then he added: “My brothers, now they think Erdogan is supposed to come to Germany. I would come if I want to. I could come and set the world on fire if you don’t let me come in, or you don’t allow me to talk.”

On Monday, Ms. Merkel told reporters, “One can’t even really seriously comment on such misplaced statements.”

Ms. Merkel’s chief of staff, Peter Altmaier, said Mr. Erdogan’s language was “absolutely unacceptable” and that the government would relay that message to Turkey.

“Concerning the rule of law, tolerance and liberalism, Germany is not to be bested,” Mr. Altmaier said.

Analysts and commentators urged calm and noted that the sparring would benefit no one. Germany and Turkey are bound by the NATO alliance, aid from the European Union and an additional European Union agreement, negotiated by Ms. Merkel and worth up to six billion euros, or $6.3 billion, if Turkey keeps refugees from fleeing across the Aegean Sea to Greece and into Central Europe.

“The most important thing is that we have no interest in a rising spiral of insults — an insult arms race, or however you want to put it,” said Volker Perthes, the director of the German Institute for Security and International Affairs, a government-funded think tank in Berlin. “That will not help us.”

He predicted relations could get back on track after April 16.

In the meantime, Mr. Erdogan — labeled the “dictator on the Bosporus” by Andreas Scheuer, a leading politician in Bavaria — has come under fierce attack, and not only in Germany.

In Austria, which has a sizable Turkish minority and a strong right-wing opposition, Chancellor Christian Kern said Turkish politicians should not campaign abroad. In the Netherlands, the nationalist Geert Wilders, who leads polls for elections this month but is unlikely to become prime minister, said he would declare all of Turkey’s ministers persona non grata.

In Turkey, opposition politicians criticized the decision to block Mr. Erdogan’s allies from speaking to German Turks. The leader of Turkey’s main opposition party, Kemal Kilicdaroglu, accused Germany of hypocrisy.

“You teach democracy to the world, but you forbid two ministers from speaking with this or that excuse,” Mr. Kilicdaroglu said on Friday, in comments reported by Hurriyet Daily News.

But some of Mr. Erdogan’s opponents noted the irony of the president defending his right to free speech in Europe, while eroding that of citizens at home.

Aysun Gezen, one of an estimated 4,000 academics purged from Turkish universities since the failed coup last year, said her case highlighted the Turkish government’s intolerance of dissident voices within its own borders.

“It is impossible to say that there is freedom of speech in Turkey,” argued Ms. Gezen, who was a political scientist at Ankara University before being fired last year for signing a petition that criticized the government’s actions toward Kurds. She and her fellow petitioners were accused of creating terrorist propaganda.

In addition to academics like Ms. Gezen, more than 120,000 government employees are estimated to have been fired or suspended in recent months for perceived opposition to the government.

On the day that Mr. Kilicdaroglu, the opposition leader, defended his opponents’ right to campaign in Germany, he also lamented his side’s inability to campaign freely in Turkey.

In an interview last week with The New York Times, he said that the whole Turkish state apparatus was being mobilized behind the yes campaign, while voices in the private news media are stifled.

State officials had made it hard for his colleagues to rent spaces for campaign events, Mr. Kilicdaroglu argued, while the police in Istanbul had failed to properly investigate claims that a group of no-campaigners had been shot at.

“We repeat the same thing 100 times, but with the problem in the media, we can’t deliver our message to the masses,” Mr. Kilicdaroglu said.



U.S. Air Campaign in Yemen Killed Guantánamo Ex-Prisoner


WASHINGTON — For a fifth consecutive night, American warplanes and drones on Monday pummeled suspected Qaeda targets in Yemen as the Pentagon said an earlier attack in the country had killed a former prisoner held at the United States detention center at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.

Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, said an airstrike last Thursday — the first night of a larger Pentagon campaign to roll back gains made by Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, or A.Q.A.P. — killed the former detainee, who was using the name Yasir Ali Abdallah al Silmi. While at Guantánamo, he was held as Detainee No. 679 and went by the name Mohammed Tahar, according to military records.

Including an airstrike overnight on Monday that Captain Davis said killed seven Qaeda fighters, the United States has conducted more than 40 attacks across central and southern Yemen in the past week. By comparison, the military carried out 41 strikes in all of 2012, the most in a single year against the Qaeda affiliate in Yemen.

Soon after taking office, President Trump authorized the stepped-up air campaign against the Qaeda branch, one of the deadliest in the world, at the same time he approved the ill-fated Special Operations raid in January that left one member of Navy SEAL Team 6 dead and three others wounded. An estimated two dozen civilians were killed in that raid.

“It’s a reflection of growing concern about the reconstitution of A.Q.A.P. in Yemen,” Gerald M. Feierstein, a former United States ambassador to Yemen who is now at the Middle East Institute in Washington, said of the flurry of airstrikes.

“The key issue is how they identify targets, the fidelity of the intelligence, and the care they take to maintain the standard of near certainty on no collateral damage,” Mr. Feierstein said, referring to civilian casualties. “I don’t know the answer to those questions.”

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee has scheduled a hearing for Thursday on Yemen, the first since the raid in January.

Mr. Tahar was imprisoned at Guantánamo Bay from 2002 to 2009. Because Yemen was in chaos at that time, officials were reluctant to repatriate detainees there. But Mr. Tahar was among a small group the Obama administration repatriated in December 2009 as part of an experiment.

Later that month, however, after the attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound airliner by Al Qaeda’s Yemen branch, President Barack Obama halted further repatriations to Yemen. Years later, the Obama administration resettled many Yemenis in other countries.

Military records show that Mr. Tahar’s brother, who went by the name Ali Abdullah Ahmed, was also a Guantánamo detainee. He was among three detainees who died in June 2006 in what the military said was a coordinated suicide.

Captain Davis said that Usayd al-Adnani, whom he described as a “longtime explosives expert who served as the organization’s emir” within Abyan Province, was killed in the same March 2 strike as Mr. Tahar.

Yemeni civilians in three provinces where Al Qaeda has strongholds described the American bombing campaign as unrelenting.

For three days beginning Friday, American drones and attack planes extensively hit the rugged mountains and valleys in central Baydha Province, where Qaeda military camps have long existed outside the control of the weak central government in Sana, the capital, according to residents reached by phone.

“They appear on the sky at nearly the same time and quickly launched heavy fire against Al Qaeda gatherings,” said Nayef, a resident who for security reasons preferred to be identified only by his first name.

“The U.S. planes become more aggressive when Al Qaeda militants fire back,” he said. “We can see balls of fire on the sky when the Americans exchange fire with Al Qaeda.”

Abdul Aziz Awadh, a resident of Abyan Province in the south, the birthplace of Yemen’s president, Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi, said that an American drone struck a taxi carrying a number of Qaeda militants on Thursday afternoon.

“The airstrike completely burned the car and killed at least four Al Qaeda,” he said. “We later learned that they came from Aden to Abyan. The U.S. drone chased them until they passed through a farm and hit them.”



Robert Osborne, Turner Classic Movies Host, Dies at 84


Robert Osborne, a onetime actor who turned his lifelong love of old films into a starring role as the marquee host of Turner Classic Movies, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84.

David Staller, a longtime friend, confirmed the death.

For the last 23 years, the silver-haired Mr. Osborne brought a sophisticated, gentlemanly air to TCM, where he turned his savant-like familiarity with films, their back stories and their stars into absorbing intros, outros and interviews.

He typically introduced 18 movies a week, as well as marathons and special presentations, that provided an escape into a golden age when Fred and Ginger were dancing, Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman ruled and Marlon Brando was transforming acting.

And, it turned out, his presence and storytelling helped turn TCM into a prime destination for movie buffs.

“I get stopped on the street all the time,” he said in an interview with The New York Times in 2014. “People say: ‘You got me through cancer last year. You got me past unemployment. You take me away from my troubles.’ Exactly what movies did in the ’30s and ’40s.”

Mr. Osborne appealed as much to moviemakers as he did to moviegoers. In a statement, Steven Spielberg said, “He got us excited and reawakened to the greatest stories ever told with the most charismatic stars in the world.”

Mr. Osborne was a fan and historian with a special fondness for leading ladies like Olivia de Havilland, Gene Tierney, Kim Novak, Barbara Stanwyck and Bette Davis, some of whom became his friends.

“I love those people,” he told “CBS Sunday Morning” last year. “They were so interesting to be around. These were people that once ruled the world.”

Ben Mankiewicz, another host on TCM, said he had witnessed the affection that actresses like Debbie Reynolds, Eva Marie Saint, Cher and Liza Minnelli showed Mr. Osborne.

“There was a trust between them,” he said in a telephone interview. “You spend 20 seconds with Robert, you know you could trust him. They knew that he appreciated the legacy they were part of. They could let their guard down. He was the exact right caretaker of these movies that mean so much to so many people.”

But, Mr. Mankiewicz added, “He’d talk to you as much about Douglas Fairbanks, Tyrone Power and Cary Grant.”

In his West Side apartment at — yes, the Osborne — he kept a memorabilia collection that included a heart-shaped pincushion from one of Elizabeth Taylor’s birthday parties; ashtrays from show business landmarks like the Brown Derby in Hollywood and the Stork Club in New York; two Golden Globe awards and the statuette used in the awards ceremony scene in “All About Eve,” which Ms. Davis gave him as a gift.

Robert Jolin Osborne Jr. was born on May 3, 1932, in Colfax, Wash. His father was a high school principal and coach; his mother, the former Hazel Jolin, was a homemaker.

Robert discovered his love of Hollywood when, in 1941, his mother brought him a copy of Modern Screen magazine with Lana Turner on the cover. He became so engrossed that he began jotting down, in a notebook, the details of every first-run movie he could find — a kind of human precursor to the Internet Movie Database.

His love of movies led to his working as a young man at the Rose and Roxy Theaters in Colfax. (He later invested in another Rose Theater, in Port Townsend, Wash., which was renovated in the 1990s.)

He studied journalism at the University of Washington and started acting after graduation, working for 20th Century Fox and for Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz’s Desilu Productions. His screen credits were modest: uncredited roles (one in Alfred Hitchcock’s “Psycho”) and a guest appearance on the 1960s sitcom “The Beverly Hillbillies.”

Ms. Ball liked him and encouraged him to give up acting to write about Hollywood. And former stars in particular — untethered from the studio system, rarely working and often forgotten — welcomed him.

“They were cut off like people on a desert island,” he told The Times. “Paulette Goddard, I got to know. Hedy Lamarr, I got to know really well. Nobody gave a damn about Hedy Lamarr back then.”

His book, “Academy Awards Illustrated” (1965), with an introduction by Ms. Davis, led to his becoming a critic and columnist at The Hollywood Reporter. His television appearances led to his being hired as a host on The Movie Channel before he moved to TCM in 1994.

Mr. Osborne’s love of movies led him to invest in the Rose Theater in Port Townsend and he became instrumental in the growth of its film festival, now entering its 18th year. “With his connections, he brought us Eva Marie Saint and other stars,” said Rocky Friedman, the majority owner of the Rose Theater there. “They’d come and do interviews with Robert — and he was so gracious with the public.”

Mr. Osborne left no immediate family survivors.

Mr. Freidman said he saw Mr. Osborne last month in Manhattan.

“He was just Robert, with countless stories about Hollywood,” he said. “And he told me something I had never known. That every Sunday for 40 years, he has spoken to Olivia de Havilland.”



